[{"label":"DBpedia:Madonna_Litta","descr":"The Madonna Litta is a late 15th-century painting of the Madonna nursing the infant Jesus which is generally attributed to Leonardo da Vinci and is displayed in the Hermitage Museum, in Saint Petersburg. There are numerous replicas of the work by other Renaissance painters, and Leonardo's own preliminary sketch of Madonna's head in the Louvre. The Child's awkward posture, however, led some scholars to attribute parts of the painting to Leonardo's pupil Boltraffio. Other clues that contribute to the fact that Leonardo had this painting completed by one of his pupils include the harsh outlines of the Madonna and Child, as well as the plain landscape. This work was painted sometime in the 1480s for the Visconti rulers of Milan and soon passed to the Litta family, in whose possession it would remain for centuries. In 1865, Alexander II of Russia acquired it from Count Litta, quondam minister to St Petersburg, and deposited the painting in the Hermitage Museum, where it has been exhibited to this day. The museum had the painting transferred from wood to canvas. The painting was briefly featured in the 2006 film The Da Vinci Code."},{"label":"DBpedia:Perugia_Altarpiece","descr":"The Perugia Altarpiece is a painting by the Italian early Renaissance painter Fra Angelico, housed in the Galleria Nazionale dell'Umbria of Perugia, Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Actor_(painting)","descr":"The Actor (L'acteur) is a 1904 painting by Spanish painter Pablo Picasso, one of the most recognized figures in 20th century art."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Charging_Chasseur","descr":"The Charging Chasseur, or An Officer of the Imperial Horse Guards Charging is an oil painting on canvas of about 1812 by the French painter Th\u00e9odore G\u00e9ricault, portraying a mounted Napoleonic cavalry officer, ready to attack. The painting represents French romanticism and has a motif similar to Jacques Louis David's Napoleon Crossing the Alps, but non-classical characteristics of the picture include its dramatic diagonal arrangement and vigorous paint handling. In The Charging Chasseur, the horse appears to be rearing away from an unseen attacker. The painting was G\u00e9ricault's first exhibited work. G\u00e9ricault would continue to move away from classicism, as exemplified in his masterpiece The Raft of the Medusa (1818\u201319). The turning figure on a rearing horse is derived from the large early Rubens Saint George, though there the view is from the side."},{"label":"DBpedia:Baronci_Altarpiece","descr":"The Baronci Altarpiece was a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael. His first recorded commission, it was made for Andrea Baronci's chapel in the church of Sant'Agostino in Citt\u00e0 di Castello, near Urbino. The altarpiece was seriously damaged during an earthquake in 1789, and since 1849 fragments of the original painting have been part of different collections."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Execution_of_Lady_Jane_Grey","descr":"The Execution of Lady Jane Grey is an oil painting by Paul Delaroche completed in 1833. It is currently housed in the National Gallery in London. The painting portrays, erroneously in some regards, the moments preceding the death of Lady Jane Grey, who, on July 10, 1553 was proclaimed Queen of England, only to be deposed 9 days later and executed in 1554. Jane is sometimes known as the \"Nine Days' Queen\" due to the brevity of her reign."},{"label":"DBpedia:Retrato_de_Luis_Mu%C3%B1oz_Mar%C3%ADn","descr":"Retrato de Luis Mu\u00f1oz Mar\u00edn (Portrait of Luis Mu\u00f1oz Mar\u00edn) is a 1977 oil painting by the Puerto Rican artist Francisco Rod\u00f3n of the first democratically elected governor of Puerto Rico. The work is one of the most recognized paintings of Rod\u00f3n, capturing the psychological portrait of Luis Mu\u00f1oz Mar\u00edn after leaving office. The portrait is the culmination of the Rodon's series called \"Personajes\". In September 1974, Rod\u00f3n began the portrait in Mu\u00f1oz Mar\u00edn's residence in Trujillo Alto. The sessions lasted until the end of that year. The portrait helps appreciate the personal style of Rod\u00f3n, that despite his travels and studies abroad resisted identification with any particular style. According to Mu\u00f1oz Marin, \"The picture captured the feeling of a phase of my life in which, recalling the past, I grieved not to have done or not being able to do much more than what I've done. \" In 1992, the portrait was part of the art exhibit in the Pavilion of Puerto Rico at the Seville Expo '92. The painting is part of the Luis Mu\u00f1oz Mar\u00edn Foundation's permanent collection."},{"label":"DBpedia:Apotheosis_of_Palermo","descr":"The Apotheosis of Palermo is a fresco by Vito D'Anna in the Palazzo Isnello, Palermo, Italy, considered one of the most representative works of the Sicilian Baroque painting. Is one of the seven monumental representations of the Genius of Palermo."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Rocky_Mountains,_Lander's_Peak","descr":"The Rocky Mountains, Lander's Peak is an 1863 landscape oil painting by the German-American painter Albert Bierstadt. It is based on sketches made during Bierstadt's travels with Frederick W. Lander's Honey Road Survey Party in 1859. The painting shows Lander's Peak in the Wyoming Range of the Rocky Mountains, with an encampment of Native Americans in the foreground. It has been compared to, and exhibited with, The Heart of the Andes by Frederic Edwin Church. Lander's Peak immediately became a critical and popular success and sold in 1865 for $25,000."},{"label":"DBpedia:Pity_(William_Blake)","descr":"Pity (c. 1795) is a colour print on paper, finished in ink and watercolour, by the English artist and poet William Blake, one of the group known as the \"Large Colour Prints\". Along with his other works of this period, it was influenced by the Bible, Milton, and Shakespeare. The work is unusual, as it is a literal illustration of a double simile from Macbeth, found in the lines: And pity, like a naked new-born babe, Striding the blast, or heaven's cherubim, hors'd Upon the sightless couriers of the air. Like other members of the group it is a monotype produced by printing from a matrix consisting of paint on gessoed millboard, with each impression then finished by hand. By this unusual means Blake could obtain up to three impressions from a single painting. Three such impressions survive of Pity. A fourth, in the British Museum, was an early trial of the design from a different matrix, as it is smaller than the others."},{"label":"DBpedia:A_Philosopher_Lecturing_on_the_Orrery","descr":"A Philosopher Lecturing on the Orrery, or the full title, A Philosopher giving a Lecture on the Orrery in which a lamp is put in place of the Sun, is a painting by Joseph Wright of Derby depicting a lecturer giving a demonstration of an orrery to a small audience. The painting preceded his similar An Experiment on a Bird in the Air Pump. The first of Wright's candlelit masterpieces, Three Persons Viewing the Gladiator by Candlelight, was painted in 1765, and showed three men studying a small copy of the \"Borghese Gladiator\". The Gladiator was greatly admired; but his next painting, The Orrery, caused a greater stir, as it replaced the Classical subject at the centre of the scene with one of a scientific nature. Wright's depiction of the awe produced by scientific \"miracles\" marked a break with previous traditions in which the artistic depiction of such wonder was reserved for religious events, since to Wright the marvels of the technological age were as awe-inspiring as the subjects of the great religious paintings. In both of these works the candlelit setting had a realist justification. Viewing sculpture by candlelight, when the contours showed well, and there might even be an impression of movement from the flickering light, was a fashionable practice described by Goethe. In the orrery demonstration the shadows cast by the lamp representing the sun were an essential part of the display. But there seems no reason other than heightened drama to stage the air pump experiment in a room lit by a single candle, and in two later paintings of the subject by Charles-Am\u00e9d\u00e9e-Philippe van Loo the lighting is normal. The painting was one of a number of British works challenging the set categories of the rigid, French-dictated, hierarchy of genres in the late 18th century, as other types of painting aspired to be treated as seriously as the costumed history painting of a Classical or mythological subject. In some respects the Orrery and Air Pump subjects resembled conversation pieces, then largely a form of middle-class portraiture, though soon to be given new status when Johann Zoffany began to paint the royal family in about 1766. Given their solemn atmosphere however, and as it seems none of the figures are intended to be understood as portraits (even if models may be identified), the paintings can not be regarded as conversation pieces. The 20th-century art historian Ellis Waterhouse compares these two works to the \"genre serieux\" of contemporary French drama, as defined by Denis Diderot and Pierre Beaumarchais, a view endorsed by Egerton. An anonymous review from the time called Wright \"a very great and uncommon genius in a peculiar way\". The Orrery was painted without a commission, probably in the expectation that it would be bought by Washington Shirley, 5th Earl Ferrers, an amateur astronomer who had an orrery of his own, and with whom Wright's friend Peter Perez Burdett was staying while in Derbyshire. Figures thought to be portraits of Burdett and Ferrers feature in the painting, Burdett taking notes and Ferrers seated with his son next to the orrery. Ferrers purchased the painting for \u00a3210, but the 6th Earl auctioned it off, and it is now held by Derby Museum and Art Gallery, where it is on permanent display, and close to a working replica of a full-sized mechanical Grand Orrery. A biographer of Wright, Benedict Nicolson, argued in 1968 that John Whitehurst was the model for the lecturer, while another commentator points out the figure's resemblance to \"a painting of Isaac Newton by Godfrey Kneller\". Close observation of the adult faces in the picture reveals that each one demonstrates one or other of the main phases of the moon - new moon, half moon, gibbous moon and full moon."},{"label":"DBpedia:Woman_with_a_Hat","descr":"Woman with a Hat (La femme au chapeau) is a painting by Henri Matisse. An oil on canvas, it depicts Matisse's wife, Amelie. It was painted in 1905 and exhibited with the work of Andr\u00e9 Derain, Maurice de Vlaminck, and several other artists, now known as \"Fauves\" at the 1905 Salon d'Automne. Critic Louis Vauxcelles, in comparing the paintings of Matisse and his associates with a Renaissance-type sculpture that shared the room with them, used with the phrase \"Donatello au milieu des fauve\u00a0!\" (Donatello among the wild beasts). His comment was printed on 17 October 1905 in Gil Blas, a daily newspaper, and passed into popular usage. Although the Fauve works on display were condemned by many\u2014\"A pot of paint has been flung in the face of the public\", declared the critic Camille Mauclair\u2014they also gained some favorable attention. The painting that was singled out for attacks was Matisse's Woman with a Hat, which was bought by Gertrude and Leo Stein: this had a very positive effect on Matisse's morale, which had suffered with the bad reception of his work. Gertrude and Leo's sister-in law Sarah Stein (the wife of their elder brother Michael) claimed to have been the original purchaser of this painting, not Gertrude (Leo did not like the painting at first). One can see it in photographs of Sarah and Michael's home on Rue Madame. It was a centerpiece in Sarah's home in Palo Alto, California for many years. Sarah Stein later sold the painting to her friend Elise Haas who donated it to SFMOMA."},{"label":"DBpedia:St._Jerome_in_the_Wilderness","descr":"St Jerome in the Wilderness (c. 1480) is an unfinished painting by Leonardo da Vinci, now in the Vatican Museums, Rome."},{"label":"DBpedia:Aristotle_Contemplating_a_Bust_of_Homer","descr":"Aristotle Contemplating a Bust of Homer is an oil-on-canvas painting by Rembrandt van Rijn. It was painted in 1653, as a commission from Don Antonio Ruffo, from Messina in Sicily, who did not request a particular subject. Aristotle, world-weary, looks at the bust of blind, humble Homer, on which he rests one of his hands. This has variously been interpreted as the man of sound, methodical science deferring to Art, or as the wealthy and famous philosopher, wearing the jeweled belt given to him by Alexander the Great, envying the life of the poor blind bard. It has also been suggested that this is Rembrandt's commentary on the power of portraiture. The interpretation of methodical science deferring to art is discussed at length in in which Held notes that Aristotle's right hand, traditionally the favored hand, is on the bust of Homer, is higher, and painted lighter than the left hand on the gold chain given to him by Alexander. It was purchased in 1961 for $2.3 million by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, USA. At the time this was the highest amount ever paid for any picture at public or private sale. The painting forms the central theme of Joseph Heller's 1988 novel Picture This."},{"label":"DBpedia:Saint_Sebastian_(Titian,_Hermitage)","descr":"Saint Sebastian is a 1570-72 painting of saint Sebastian by Titian, now in the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg."},{"label":"DBpedia:Metaphysical_Interior_with_Large_Factory","descr":"Metaphysical Interior with Large Factory (1916\u201317) is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. It is part of a series that extended late into de Chirico\u2019s career. Like the other works in this series it depicts a small room cluttered with surreal objects. This time the main focus is a framed picture of a factory complex."},{"label":"DBpedia:On_the_Threshold_of_Liberty","descr":"On the Threshold of Liberty (in French, Au seuil de la libert\u00e9) refers to two oil on canvas paintings by the Belgian surrealist Ren\u00e9 Magritte. The work depicts a large room with the walls paneled with different scenes or windows. Each panel reveals a different subject: a sky, fire, wood, a forest, the front of a building, an ornamental pattern, a female torso and a strange metallic texture featuring spherical bells (a common Magritte element). Inside the room is a cannon. The original painting was completed in 1929 and is currently part of the collection at the Museum Boymans-van Beuningen in Rotterdam. A second version was commissioned in 1937 by Magritte patron Edward James. For this version, the orientation was changed from horizontal to vertical leading to an increase in the area of the room depicted. It is currently on display at the Art Institute of Chicago. In 1983 the American composer and trumpeter Mark Isham composed a piece of music titled after this painting. From 1996 through 2008, National Public Radio used Isham's composition as the background music for the annual July 4 reading of the Declaration of Independence on the NPR program Morning Edition."},{"label":"DBpedia:Seine_(Van_Gogh_series)","descr":"Seine (paintings) is the subject and location of paintings that Vincent van Gogh made in 1886 and 1887. The Seine has been an integral part of Parisian life for centuries for commerce, travel and entertainment. Here Van Gogh primarily captures the respite and relief from city life found in nature. A few of the paintings were made in Paris and the rest in the northwestern suburbs of Paris in Clichy and Asni\u00e8res. Through these works the audience can see a transition in Van Gogh's work from one of dark colors and serious themes to more joyous use of color and light and choice of themes. In Holland Van Gogh was influenced by great Dutch masters as well as cousin-in-law Anton Mauve a Dutch realist painter who was a leading member of the Hague School. In Paris Van Gogh was exposed to and influenced by Impressionism, Symbolism, Pointillism, and Japanese woodblock print genres which were overtime integrated into his works. The spring of 1887 seemed to trigger an awakening within Van Gogh where he experimented with the genres to develop his personal style."},{"label":"DBpedia:David_Garrick_as_Richard_III","descr":"David Garrick as Richard III is a painting dating from 1745 by the English artist William Hogarth. The painting shows the actor and stage manager David Garrick in the role of Richard\u00a0III in Shakespeare's play entitled Richard\u00a0III. It depicts a dramatic moment in the play on the eve of the Battle of Bosworth Field. The king, who had been asleep in his tent on the battlefield, has just woken from a dream in which he has seen the ghosts of the victims he has previously murdered. Hogarth was a friend of Garrick, who had gained a degree of fame through his portrayal of Richard\u00a0III in this play at the Drury Lane Theatre in London. The painting shows the actor exhibiting emotions of fear and concern, with one arm raised and a shocked expression on his face. Hogarth is best remembered for his satirical prints on social themes, but he was also a skilled painter and portraitist. This painting is more than a portrait as it shows the subject at a key time in history, and also in a theatrical pose. It falls between the commonly accepted genres of portrait and history painting. The pose used by Hogarth was similar to other that used for other portraits of actors, especially those by Zoffany. Having compared Hogarth's painting with those of Garrick by Reynolds, Gill Parry concludes that Hogarth had helped to establish a new sub-genre within portraiture, that of the theatrical portrait. The line of pose adopted by the actor is what Hogarth called \"the serpentine line\"; he described it as \"being composed of two curves contrasted\". When he wrote his treatise The Analysis of Beauty in 1753 he stated that this is a particularly beautiful shape which \"gives play to the imagination and delights the eye\". The painting is in oil on canvas and measures 190.5 centimetres by 250.8 centimetres . It is owned by the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool, Merseyside, England, and was purchased by them in 1956 with help from the National Art Collections Fund."},{"label":"DBpedia:Self-portrait_(Hans_Holbein_the_Younger)","descr":"The Self-portrait is a painting by the German Renaissance master Hans Holbein the Younger, executed around 1542-1543. It is housed in the Uffizi, Florence. The work was bought in London for Gran Duke Cosimo III de' Medici in 1681. As in other works by the German artist, there is much care for details, such as the hair, painter one by one."},{"label":"DBpedia:Gualino_Madonna","descr":"The Gualino Madonna is a painting attributed to Italian late medieval artist Duccio di Buoninsegna."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Bride_Stripped_Bare_By_Her_Bachelors,_Even","descr":"The Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even (La mari\u00e9e mise \u00e0 nu par ses c\u00e9libataires, m\u00eame), most often called The Large Glass (Le Grand Verre), is an artwork by Marcel Duchamp. Duchamp carefully created The Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors, Even, working on the piece from 1915 to 1923. He executed the work on two panes of glass with materials such as lead foil, fuse wire, and dust. It combines chance procedures, plotted perspective studies, and laborious craftsmanship. Duchamp's ideas for the Glass began in 1913, and he made numerous notes and studies, as well as preliminary works for the piece. The notes reflect the creation of unique rules of physics, and myth which describes the work. He published the notes and studies as The Green Box in 1934. The notes describe that his \"hilarious picture\" is intended to depict the erotic encounter between the \"Bride,\" in the upper panel, and her nine \"Bachelors\" gathered timidly below in an abundance of mysterious mechanical apparatus in the lower panel. The Large Glass was exhibited in 1926 at the Brooklyn Museum before it was broken during transport and carefully repaired by Duchamp. It is now part of the permanent collection at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. Duchamp sanctioned replicas of The Large Glass, the first in 1961 for an exhibition at Moderna Museet in Stockholm and another in 1966 for the Tate Gallery in London. The third replica is in Komaba Museum, University of Tokyo."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Funeral_of_Phocion","descr":"The Funeral of Phocion is a 1648 landscape painting, also known as The Burial of Phocion, Landscape with the Funeral of Phocion and Landscape with the Body of Phocion Carried out of Athens, by the French artist Nicolas Poussin. Phocion was an Athenian statesman from the 4th century BC. Three versions of the painting are known. These are now housed in The Louvre, Paris; National Museum Cardiff and the collections of the Glass House in New Canaan, Connecticut, United States. In the same year Poussin painted a companion piece to The Funeral of Phocion, Landscape with the Ashes of Phocion."},{"label":"DBpedia:Landscape_with_Snow","descr":"Landscape with Snow is a painting made by Vincent van Gogh in 1888, believed to be one of the first paintings that he made in Arles. It is one of at least ten oil and watercolor paintings that Van Gogh made of a snowy landscape from 1882 to 1889. The painting reflects the La Crau plains set against Montmajour and hills along the horizon."},{"label":"DBpedia:Mariana_(Millais)","descr":"Mariana is an 1851 oil-on-wood painting by John Everett Millais. The image is based on the solitary Mariana from William Shakespeare\u2019s Measure for Measure, written between 1601 and 1606. In the play, Mariana was to be married, but was rejected when her dowry was lost in a shipwreck. The painting is regarded as an example of Millais' \"precision, attention to detail, and stellar ability as a colorist\". When it was first exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1851, the display caption contained lines from Tennyson's \"Mariana\" (1830): \u2003 \u2003 She only said, 'My life is dreary, \u2003 \u2003 \u2003 He cometh not,' she said; \u2003 \u2003 She said, 'I am aweary, aweary,' \u2003 \u2003 \u2003 I would that I were dead!' 30px External video 16px Millais's Mariana, Smarthistory"},{"label":"DBpedia:Poppy_Flowers","descr":"Poppy Flowers (also known as Vase and Flowers and Vase with Viscaria) is a painting by Vincent van Gogh with an estimated value of $50 million to $55 million; it was stolen from Cairo's Mohammed Mahmoud Khalil Museum in August 2010 and is still yet to be found. Egyptian officials erroneously believed they had recovered the painting only hours after its theft when two Italian suspects attempted to board a plane to Italy at Cairo International Airport. The same painting had been stolen from the same museum on June 4, 1977, and was recovered ten years later in Kuwait. The painting is small, measuring 65 x 54\u00a0cm, and depicts yellow and red poppy flowers. It is believed that van Gogh painted it in 1887, three years before his suicide. The painting, which is of a vase of yellow and red poppies, contrasted against a dark ground is a reflection of Van Gogh's deep admiration for Adolphe Monticelli, an older painter whose work influenced him when first he saw it in Paris in 1886."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Parnassus","descr":"The Parnassus is a painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael."},{"label":"DBpedia:Slave_Market_with_the_Disappearing_Bust_of_Voltaire","descr":"Slave Market with the Disappearing Bust of Voltaire (1940) is a painting by Spanish Surrealist Salvador Dal\u00ed. The painting depicts a slave market, while a woman at a booth watches some people. A variety of people seem to make up the face of Voltaire, while the face seems to be positioned on an object to form a bust. The painting was completed in 1940. Dal\u00ed describes his work on the painting \"to make the abnormal look normal and the normal look abnormal.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Les_Demoiselles_d'Avignon","descr":"Les Demoiselles d'Avignon (The Young Ladies of Avignon, and originally titled The Brothel of Avignon) is a large oil painting created in 1907 by the Spanish artist Pablo Picasso (1881\u20131973). The work portrays five nude female prostitutes from a brothel on Carrer d'Aviny\u00f3 (Aviny\u00f3 Street) in Barcelona. Each figure is depicted in a disconcerting confrontational manner and none are conventionally feminine. The women appear as slightly menacing and rendered with angular and disjointed body shapes. Two are shown with African mask-like faces and three more with faces in the Iberian style of Picasso's native Spain, giving them a savage aura. In this adaptation of Primitivism and abandonment of perspective in favor of a flat, two-dimensional picture plane, Picasso makes a radical departure from traditional European painting. The work is widely considered to be seminal in the early development of both cubism and modern art. Demoiselles was revolutionary and controversial, and led to wide anger and disagreement, even amongst his closest associates and friends. Painted in Paris during the summer of 1907, Picasso had created hundreds of sketches and studies in preparation for the final work. He long acknowledged the importance of Spanish art and Iberian sculpture as influences on the painting. The work is believed by critics to be influenced by African tribal masks and the art of Oceania, although Picasso denied the connection; many art historians remain skeptical about his denials. Several experts maintain that, at the very least, Picasso visited the Mus\u00e9e d'Ethnographie du Trocad\u00e9ro (known today as Mus\u00e9e de l'Homme) in the spring of 1907 where he saw and was unconsciously influenced by African and Tribal art several months before completing Demoiselles. Some critics argue that the painting was a reaction to Henri Matisse's Le bonheur de vivre and Blue Nude. Its resemblance to C\u00e9zanne's Les Grandes Baigneuses, Paul Gauguin's statue Oviri and El Greco's Opening of the Fifth Seal has been widely discussed by later critics. At the time of its first exhibition in 1916, the painting was deemed immoral. In the nine years after its creation, Picasso had always referred to it as Le Bordel d'Avignon, but art critic Andr\u00e9 Salmon, who managed its first exposition, retitled it Les Demoiselles d'Avignon to lessen its scandalous impact on the public. Picasso never liked Salmon's title, and as an edulcoration would have preferred las chicas de Avignon instead."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Giovanni_de'_Medici_as_a_Child","descr":"The Portrait of Giovanni de' Medici as a Child (c. 1545) is an oil on panel painting by the Florentine artist Agnolo Bronzino. It is currently located at the Galleria degli Uffizi in Florence."},{"label":"DBpedia:Alof_de_Wignacourt","descr":"Fra' Alof de Wignacourt (1547 \u2013 14 September 1622) was the 54th Grand Master of the Order of Malta, from 1601 to 1622. He was of the langue of France. His reign was notable for the construction of a number of coastal fortifications, and of the aqueduct that brought water from the plateau above Rabat to Valletta. His parade armour survives and is one of the treasures of the Palace Armoury in Valletta. He was briefly a patron of the painter Caravaggio."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Story_of_Virginia_(Botticelli)","descr":"The Story of Virginia (Italian, Storie di Virginia), is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli. It is a tempera on panel and measures 86 cm tall and 165 cm wide. It is currently held by the Accademia Carrara in Bergamo, Italy. It is one of the last works that Botticelli made exemplifying virtue, like The Story of Lucretia. The painting has as a fundamental theme of violated honor and matrimonial fidelity. The combination of several scenes in a single image was common in the art of the early Renaissance. These are read from left to right: Virginia, in the company of other women, is violated or assaulted by Marcus Claudius Tacitus, who wants to force her to yield to Appius Claudius Caecus; He carries her to the tribunal presided by Appius Claudius who declares her a slave; The father and the husband of the woman plead for clemency The father, to preserve the family honor, kills her and flees on horseback. This story is developed within a setting of classical architecture, in which the figures are agitated, painted with vibrant colors."},{"label":"DBpedia:Equestrian_Statue_of_Niccol%C3%B2_da_Tolentino","descr":"The Equestrian Statue of Niccol\u00f2 da Tolentino is a fresco painting by the Italian early Renaissance master Andrea del Castagno, executed in 1456. It is housed in the Florence Cathedral, Italy. Located on the left internal wall of the church, it pairs the adjacent Equestrian Statue of John Hawkwood by Paolo Uccello (1436)."},{"label":"DBpedia:Battle_of_Grunwald_(painting)","descr":"The Battle of Grunwald is a painting by Jan Matejko depicting the Battle of Grunwald and the victory of the allied Crown of the Kingdom of Poland and Grand Duchy of Lithuania over the Teutonic Order in 1410. The canvas dates to 1878 and is one of the most heroic representations of the history of Poland. It is displayed in the National Museum in Warsaw. The painting's main focus is the death scene of the Grand Master of the Teutonic Order, Ulrich von Jungingen; another central figure is the Lithuanian duke Vytautas (Witold), dressed in red with a raised sword. The painting has been both hailed and criticized for its complexity. It is one of Matejko's most recognizable works, and has likely contributed to the popular image of the battle of Grunwald, and its enduring fame in Polish consciousness."},{"label":"DBpedia:Equestrian_Portrait_of_Charles_V","descr":"Equestrian Portrait of Charles V (also Emperor Charles V on Horseback and Charles V at M\u00fchlberg) is an oil-on-canvas painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Titian. Created between April and September 1548 while Titian was at the imperial court of Augsburg, it is a tribute to Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, following Charles' victory in the April 1547 Battle of M\u00fchlberg. Titian knew Charles V personally, and had painted a number of portraits of him by this time. The portrait was commissioned by Mary of Austria, Queen of Hungary, and entered the Museo del Prado's collection in 1827. Drawing on sources such as Roman military art (the statue of Marcus Aurelius on horseback), Renaissance equestrian imagery such as the engravings of Hans Burgkmair, and possibly D\u00fcrer's Knight, Death and the Devil, Titian portrays Charles V heroically but in a calm dawn setting in which there are no signs of battle. A feeling of steadiness and control is created by the darkly treed background behind the rider, the evenly clouded sky, and Charles' detached gaze into the distance. Titian departs from the traditional rendering of rider on horse, in which one of the horse's front legs is raised (as seen in the gallery of Roman and Renaissance works below). Instead, the horse rears slightly, or may be striking off into a canter, with only its hind legs touching the ground, while Charles still holds the reins lightly, upright but at ease, implying his advanced horsemanship. The canvas contains surprisingly few iconographic elements. Pietro Aretino, a contemporary writer whom Titian painted, suggested that Titian should incorporate conventional references to religion and fame. Charles' portrait instead gains its impact by its directness and sense of contained power: the horse's strength seems just in check, and Charles' brilliantly shining armour and the painting's deep reds are reminders of battle and heroism. Titian recorded all of the foreground elements\u2014the horse, its caparison, and the rider's armour\u2014from those used in the actual battle. Symbolism and iconography are not absent from the painting, however. The red worn by Charles and his horse represents the Catholic faith in the wars of the 16th century. His lance alludes to Saint George, the exemplar of the \"traditional image of a military knight-saint\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:Transfiguration_of_Christ_(Bellini)","descr":"Transfiguration of Christ is the subject of two paintings by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, who finished them, respectively, in 1454-1460 and 1480. The earlier version is on display in the Museo Correr of Venice; the later one is now housed in the Capodimonte Gallery of Naples, Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Elevation_of_the_Cross_(Rubens)","descr":"The Elevation of the Cross (also called The Raising of the Cross) is a triptych painting by Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens, completed in 1610-1611. Rubens painted The Elevation of the Cross after returning to Flanders from Italy. The work shows the clear influence of Italian Renaissance and Baroque artists such as Caravaggio, Tintoretto, and Michelangelo. The central panel illustrates a tension between the multitude of finely muscled men attempting to lift the cross and the seemingly unbearable weight of Christ on the cross. Rubens' foreshortening is evident in the contortions of the struggling, strapping men. Christ cuts across the central panel in a diagonal, stylistically akin to Caravaggio's Entombment where both descent and ascent are in play at a key moment. Motion, space and time are illustrated along with the struggle to upright the cross. Rubens uses dynamic color and chiaroscuro boldly, a style that would become more subtle with time. The painting is located at the Cathedral of Our Lady in Antwerp, Belgium, along with other Rubens works. Under Napoleon's rule, the emperor took the painting, along with Rubens' The Descent from the Cross, to Paris. The paintings were returned to the cathedral in 1815."},{"label":"DBpedia:Gare_Montparnasse_(The_Melancholy_of_Departure)","descr":"Gare Montparnasse (The Melancholy of Departure) (1914) is a painting by the Greek-Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. Many of de Chirico\u2019s works were inspired by the introspective feelings evoked by travel. He was born in Greece to Italian parents. This work was painted during a period when he lived in Paris. The painting depicts the Gare Montparnasse train station in Paris, France. It is a classic example of de Chirico\u2019s style, depicting an angular perspective on an outdoor architectural setting in the long shadows and deep colors of early evening. On the horizon is a steam train with a plume of white smoke billowing away from it. The train image appears several times in de Chirico's work. In the foreground is a bunch of bananas, another recurring image in de Chirico's work. In 1916, de Chirico painted another work simply titled The Melancholy of Departure. In 1987, the American jazz musicians Mark Isham and Art Lande released a song titled \"The Melancholy of Departure\" on their collaborative album We Begin."},{"label":"DBpedia:Frenzy_of_Exultations","descr":"Frenzy of Exultations (Sza\u0142 Uniesie\u0144), or better known as just Frenzy (Sza\u0142), is a 1893 painting by Polish artist, W\u0142adys\u0142aw Podkowi\u0144ski, and is credited as the most famous work in his output. It is considered the first work of symbolism in Polish art, during a period when Poland was partitioned between its neighbours: Russia, Germany and Austria."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Calling_of_St_Matthew_(Caravaggio)","descr":"The Calling of Saint Matthew is a masterpiece by Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio, depicting the moment at which Jesus Christ inspires Matthew to follow him. It was completed in 1599-1600 for the Contarelli Chapel in the church of the French congregation, San Luigi dei Francesi in Rome, where it remains today. It hangs alongside two other paintings of Matthew by Caravaggio, The Martyrdom of Saint Matthew (painted around the same time as the Calling) and The Inspiration of Saint Matthew (1602)."},{"label":"DBpedia:Hokusai_Manga","descr":"The Hokusai Manga is a collection of sketches of various subjects by the Japanese artist Hokusai. Subjects of the sketches include landscapes, flora and fauna, everyday life and the supernatural. The word manga in the title does not refer to the contemporary story-telling manga, as the sketches in the work are not connected to each other. Block-printed in three colours (black, gray and pale flesh), the Manga comprise literally thousands of images in 15 volumes, the first published in 1814, when the artist was 55. The final three volumes were published posthumously, two of them assembled by their publisher from previously unpublished material. The final volume was made up of previously published works, some not even by Hokusai, and is not considered authentic by art historians."},{"label":"DBpedia:Manchester_Madonna","descr":"Madonna and Child with St John and Angels 300px Artist Michelangelo Year c. \u00a01497 Type Tempera on panel Dimensions 105\u00a0cm \u00d7\u00a076\u00a0cm Location National Gallery, London The Madonna and Child with St John and Angels (c. \u00a01497), also known as The Manchester Madonna, is an unfinished painting attributed to Michelangelo in the National Gallery, London. It is one of three surviving panel paintings attributed to the artist and is dated to his first period in Rome. The painting's attribution to Michelangelo was in doubt for much of the 19th and 20th centuries, but now most scholars are in agreement. The work first came to public attention in the Art Treasures Exhibition in Manchester in 1857, hence the title the \u201cManchester Madonna\u201d. Like other Renaissance paintings of the Madonna and Child which include John the Baptist, the subject arises from a non-Biblical tradition that Virgin Mary and the Child Jesus met with Christ's cousin St John the Baptist, on the Holy Family's Flight into Egypt. The Virgin is depicted with one breast bared, as if she has recently been suckling her infant son; this recalls the theme of the Virgin breastfeeding common in medieval painting. In her hands is a book which she attempts to hold away from her son, the contents of which probably foretell his future sacrifice. She looks over her left shoulder onto a scroll being read by a pair of angels; this is likely to be the scroll reading Ecce Agnus Dei ('Behold the Lamb of God'), usually an attribute of John the Baptist. The figures are arranged as if in a frieze, revealing Michelangelo's sculptor's mindset. The frieze becomes more convex at its centre with the figures of Virgin and Child, as in the later Pitti Tondo. Another similarity to relief sculpture is in the plain background: rather than the landscapes more common for exterior settings, Michelangelo has simply painted an expanse of sky. He also eschewed the richly-decorated throne typical of sacra conversazione altarpieces, and de-emphasised the angels' wings. Many areas of the painting are in a preliminary state; the black of the Virgin's robe was meant to be overpainted with the rich blue pigment lapis lazuli, and the angels on the left are indicated only by the green underpaint used for flesh tones."},{"label":"DBpedia:First_Reading_of_the_Emancipation_Proclamation_of_President_Lincoln","descr":"First Reading of the Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln is an 1864 oil-on-canvas painting by Francis Bicknell Carpenter. In the painting, Carpenter depicts Abraham Lincoln, the 16th President of the United States, and his Cabinet members reading over the Emancipation Proclamation, which proclaimed the freedom of slaves in the ten states rebelling against the Union in the American Civil War. Lincoln first presented the Emancipation Proclamation to his Cabinet on July 22, 1862, and issued the Proclamation on September 22, 1862, which took effect on January 1, 1863. Carpenter spent six months in the White House while he painted. The painting is currently displayed at the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C.."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Surrender_of_Breda","descr":"La rendici\u00f3n de Breda (English: The Surrender of Breda, also known as El cuadro de las lanzas or Las lanzas) is a painting by Vel\u00e1zquez, painted during the years 1634\u201335, and inspired while Vel\u00e1zquez was visiting Italy with Ambrogio Spinola, the Genoese general who conquered Breda on June 5, 1625. It is considered one of Vel\u00e1zquez's best artworks. Jan Morris has called it \"one of the most Spanish of all pictures\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:Crucifixion_(Corpus_Hypercubus)","descr":"Crucifixion (Corpus Hypercubus) is a 1954 oil-on-canvas painting by Salvador Dali which depicts the Crucifixion of Jesus, though it deviates from traditional portrayals of the Crucifixion by depicting Christ on the polyhedron net of a hypercube and adding elements of Surrealism. It is one of his most well known paintings from the later period of his career."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Young_Shepherdess","descr":"The Young Shepherdess is an 1885 painting by William-Adolphe Bouguereau (1825\u20131905). It is currently owned by the San Diego Museum of Art. This and similar images by the artist attracted collectors in Europe and America because of their nostalgic content. In such works the artist depicted a variety of poses and expressions, in this case showing the mild curiosity of the girl."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Punishment_of_Tythus","descr":"The Punishment of Tythus is a mythological painting by Titian dating to 1549 and now in the Museo del Prado. It shows the punishment of the giant Tityos from Greek mythology."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Races_at_Longchamp","descr":"The Races at Longchamp is an 1866 painting by the French artist \u00c9douard Manet. The Impressionist painting depicts a horse racing at Longchamp and is currently conserved at the Art Institute of Chicago. It has been exhibited many times, the first one at the \u00c9cole nationale sup\u00e9rieure des Beaux-Arts in Paris in January 1884. The work is particularly innovative. About the painting, the Art Institute of Chicago said it \"is startling. We find ourselves on the racecourse with a cluster of onrushing horses and jockeys bearing directly down on us. With a few judicious exceptions\u2014the vertical starting post left of center; the crisp rectangle of the viewing-stand roof at the right\u2014everything is blurred, a device that heightens the sense of explosive movement of the galloping horses.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:The_cricketers","descr":"The cricketers is a 1948 painting by the Australian artist Russell Drysdale. The painting depicts three boys set among the buildings in an empty town; two playing cricket and the other watching. The National Gallery of Australia describes the painting as \"one of the most original and haunting images in all Australian art. \" The Sydney Morning Herald said the work is \"possibly the most famous Australian painting of the 20th century.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Klimt_University_of_Vienna_Ceiling_Paintings","descr":"The Klimt University of Vienna Ceiling Paintings, also known as the Faculty Paintings, were a series of paintings made by Gustav Klimt for the ceiling of the University of Vienna's Great Hall between the years of 1900-1907. In 1894, Klimt was commissioned to paint the ceiling. Upon presenting his paintings, Philosophy, Medicine and Jurisprudence, Klimt came under attack for 'pornography' and 'perverted excess' in the paintings. None of the paintings would go on display in the university. In May 1945 all three paintings were destroyed by retreating SS forces."},{"label":"DBpedia:Annunciation_(church_of_San_Salvador)","descr":"The Annunciation is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Titian, executed between 1559 and 1564. It is housed in the church of San Salvador, Venice, northern Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:Wheat_Field_with_a_Lark","descr":"In 1887, while Vincent van Gogh was residing in Paris, he executed an oil painting commonly known as Wheat Field with a Lark. The center part shows a partially harvested field of wheat under a sky patterned with light clouds. A lark takes flight toward the upper right. The painting measures 54 x 65.5 cm (approximately 21-1\/4 x 25-3\/4 inches) and is housed in the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Magpie_on_the_Gallows","descr":"The Magpie on the Gallows is an oil on wood panel of 1568 by Pieter Bruegel the Elder. The painting shows a woodland clearing containing three peasants dancing to a bagpipes, next to a gallows upon which a magpie is perched. The gallows stands in the centre of the picture, dividing the painting in two, a Mannerist composition with the right side more \"open\" and left more \"closed\", with the magpie close to the exact centre of the painting. The gallows appears to form an \"impossible object\", similar to a Penrose triangle, with the bases of the posts seemingly planted side by side, but with the right side of the cross-member receding into the distance, and contradictory lighting. Another magpie sits on a rock at the base of the gallows, near the skull of an animal. The only people occupy the left foreground: a man defecates in the shadows to the left, while others watch the three dancers. To the right stands a cross with a watermill behind. The background opens on to a view of a river valley, with a town to the left and castle on a rocky crag above, and a tower on a rock outcrop to the right, and distant hills and the sky beyond. Behind the dancers rise two intertwined trees, a motif used by Bruegel in an earlier drawing of bears playing in a forest. An impression of depth is given by the progression from dense brown tones dominating of the foreground, through green midtones in the middle distance, to light blues and greys for the background. Bruegel's painting was created the year after Fernando \u00c1lvarez de Toledo, 3rd Duke of Alba, arrived in the Netherlands, sent by the Spanish king, Philip II to suppress the Dutch Revolt. The gallows may represent the threat of execution of those preaching the new Protestant doctrine, and the painting may allude to several Netherlandish proverbs. There is a direct allusion to the Netherlandish proverbs of dancing or shitting on the gallows, meaning a mocking of the state. It also alludes to the belief that magpies are gossips, and that gossip leads to hangings. And that the way to the gallows leads through pleasant meadows. It is not known why or for whom the picture was painted. Its date of 1568 makes this painting one of Bruegel's last works before his death in 1569; indeed, perhaps his final work. Bruegel asked his wife to burn some of his pictures on his death, but told her to keep the Magpie on the Gallows for herself. It is now held by the Hessisches Landesmuseum in Darmstadt."},{"label":"DBpedia:Jeune_Fille_Endormie","descr":"Jeune Fille Endormie is a 1935 work by Spanish painter Pablo Picasso. Rarely seen by the public, it was sold at Christie's auction house in London in 2011 for nearly \u00a313.5\u00a0million after being donated to the University of Sydney by an anonymous American dono."},{"label":"DBpedia:Seven_Sorrows_Polyptych","descr":"The Seven Sorrows Polyptych is an oil on panel painting by Albrecht D\u00fcrer. The painting includes a central picture (108 x 43 cm), currently at the Alte Pinakothek in Munich, and seven surrounding panels (measuring some 60 x 46\u00a0cm) which are exhibited at the Gem\u00e4ldegalerie Alte Meister of Dresden."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Vale_of_Rest","descr":"The Vale of Rest (1858-9) is a painting by John Everett Millais. The painting is of a graveyard, as night is coming on. Beyond the graveyard wall there's a low chapel with a bell. In the foreground of the scene, there are two nuns - the heads of the two nuns are level and symmetrical. They're Roman Catholic nuns, one of the nuns holds a rosary, and one of the nuns is digging a grave. Her forearm and body strain under the weight of a shovelful. The other, overseeing the work, turns with a look of apprehension, anguish. Art critic, Tom Lubbock\u00a0: \" Graves. Dusk. A walled enclosure. The spooky, looming trees. Nuns. Catholics (in England then, still an object of suspicion). Sexual segregation. Religiosity. Mistress and servant, a power relationship, maybe some deeper emotional bondage. Female labour. Something being buried or exhumed. Twin wreaths. The deep dark earth. Corpses, secrets, conspiracy, fear. It's a picture that pulls out all the stops. \" The painting is one of those satirised in Florence Claxton's watercolour The Choice of Paris - an idyll (1860). Claxton criticized \" the perceived ugliness of early pre-Raphaelite paintings by exaggerating details from many of their works, including The Vale of Rest, Claudio and Isabella, and, lying in the grass, Alice Gray from Spring \""},{"label":"DBpedia:Cafe_Terrace_at_Night","descr":"Caf\u00e9 Terrace at Night, also known as The Cafe Terrace on the Place du Forum, is a coloured oil painting executed by the Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh on an industrially primed canvas of size 25 (Toile de 25 figure) in Arles, France, mid-September 1888. The painting is not signed, but described and mentioned by the artist in his letters on various occasions. There is also a large pen drawing of the composition which originates from the artist's estate. Visitors of the site can still stand at the northeastern corner of the Place du Forum, where the artist set up his easel. He looked south towards the artificially lit terrace of the popular coffee house, as well as into the enforced darkness of the rue du Palais leading up to the building structure (to the left, not pictured) and, beyond this structure, the tower of a former church (now Mus\u00e9e Lapidaire). Towards the right, Van Gogh indicated a lighted shop as well, and some branches of the trees surrounding the place\u2014but he omitted the remainders of the Roman monuments just beside this little shop. The painting is currently at the Kr\u00f6ller-M\u00fcller Museum in Otterlo, Netherlands."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Melancholy_of_Departure","descr":"The Melancholy of Departure (1916) is a painting by the Greek-Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. This painting was created after de Chirico returned to Italy from Paris to join the Italian Army in World War I. During this time de Chirico was moving away from the bright open scenes of his previous work. He was now focusing on more abstract combinations of objects and indoor settings, and seeking to paint the hidden meanings behind the surface of things. The themes of travel and departure are present in much of de Chirico's canon, as seen in his many paintings of trains and railways stations. This painting depicts a random cluster of objects used to make paintings, and an easel which holds up a triangular map. The map shows a channel between two land masses with outlines of different routes. The surroundings are the inside of a room at night. The room has an open archway through which can be seen a tower. This is the second painting by de Chirico by this title after his 1914 work Gare Montparnasse (The Melancholy of Departure). In 1987 the American jazz musicians Mark Isham and Art Lande released a song titled \u201cThe Melancholy of Departure\u201d on their collaborative album We Begin."},{"label":"DBpedia:Malchiostro_Annunciation","descr":"Malchiostro Annunciation is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Titian, executed around 1520, and housed in the Cathedral of Treviso, northern Italy. The Malchiostro Chapel, located to the left of the high altar of the Cathedral of Treviso, near the sacristy, was commissioned by Broccardo Malchiostro, secretary of the bishop and humanist Bernardo de' Rossi. Designed by Tullio of Antonio Lombardo, it was completed in 1519 and frescoed by Il Pordenone until 1520. The decoration was completed in around 1523, and this Annunciation was executed by Titian around that period, perhaps with the help of Paris Bordone. The face of the donor was possibly repainted after 1526. Lorenzo Lotto was inspired by this work for his Recanati Annunciation. The painting depicts the Annunciation in a church with a chessboard pavement. Titian, instead of painting the angel on the left and Mary on the right as usual, moved the Madonna into the foreground with the angel behind, pushed towards Mary by the divine light behind him. At the center, kneeling, is the donor, put in a rather far position from the viewer."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Coronation_of_Napoleon","descr":"The Coronation of Napoleon (French: Le Sacre de Napol\u00e9on) is a painting completed in 1807 by Jacques-Louis David, the official painter of Napoleon. The painting has imposing dimensions, as it is almost ten metres wide by approximately six metres tall. The crowning and the coronation took place at Notre-Dame de Paris, a way for Napoleon to make it clear that he was a son of the Revolution."},{"label":"DBpedia:Boating_on_the_River_Epte","descr":"Boating on the River Epte (also known as The Canoe on the Epte) is an 1890 oil painting by French impressionist artist Claude Monet. It is currently housed at the S\u00e3o Paulo Museum of Art. Between 1887 and 1890 Monet concerned himself with portraying scenes from the River Epte, which bathed this property at Giverny. The sisters Suzanne and Blanche Hosched\u00e9 posed for this series of pictures, their late father being banker Ernest Hosched\u00e9, a patron of the arts and collector of Monet, and their mother, Alice, who became Monet\u2019s second wife. This series began with La Barque Rose (private collection) and also worthy of mention are canvases La Barque \u00e0 Giverny and En Barque. The S\u00e3o Paulo Museum of Art picture, which also has a preparatory study, was mentioned by the artist himself on a letter to critic and friend Geffroy, dated June 22, 1890: \u201cI am again vexed by things that are impossible to do: water with undulating vegetation on the bottom\u201d. In fact one of the more singular characteristics of The Canoe on the Epte in the Monet context is the proximity of the water, which assumes at the lower part of the composition an almost tactile reality, as if the painter for once did not want to depict the luminous reflections of its surface, but its depth. Although it belongs to a series, the masp work is in this particular a unique case. Monet here announces materiality, and it is necessary to remember that this new visual dimension of water will only be obtained again over thirty years later in his paintings of the 1918-1924 period. His friendship with photographer Nadar and his genuine interest in photography explain the framing of the composition as well as the out-of-focus effect produced by the movement of the boat on the water to be seen in the Hosched\u00e9 sisters. In addition, a possible source of the S\u00e3o Paulo Museum of Art composition, as has been detected, is the Harunobu engraving, titled Woman Collecting Lotus Flowers."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Haywain_Triptych","descr":"Haywain is a triptych panel painting by Hieronymus Bosch which is housed in the Museo del Prado, Madrid, Spain. A date of between 1480 and 1500 AD has been established by means of dendrochronological research. The centre panel measures 140 by 100 centimeters (cm) and the wings measure 147 by 66 cm. The outside shutters of the triptych show a scene entitled The Path of Life, featuring a version of Bosch's The Wayfarer character. A second version of the painting is housed in El Escorial. The Haywain triptych has a similar narrative to The Garden of Earthly Delights. The left panel shows God as he creates Eve. Unlike the Garden, though, a narrative sequence flows through the panel in different scenes. At the top, the rebel angels are cast out of Heaven while God sits enthroned, the angels turning into insects as they break through the clouds. Below this, God creates Eve from the rib of Adam. Next, Adam and Eve find the serpent and the tree; the serpent offers them an apple. Finally, at the lowest part of the panel, the angel forces the two out of the Garden of Eden. Adam speaks with the angel; Eve looks ahead to the right in a melancholic pose. The central panel features a massive wagon of hay surrounded by a multitude of figures engaged in a variety of sins, not just the sin of lust which dominates the Garden of Earthly Delights. In the center panel Bosch shows Christ in the sky, not paralleled in the Garden. An angel on top of the wagon looks to the sky, praying, whereas none of the other figures see Christ looking down on the world. The rightward bow of the figures around the wagon provides the force for the viewer\u2019s eye to move with them on their journey and the cart is drawn by infernal beings which drag everyone to hell, depicted on the right panel. The forward kinetic motion of the participants moves the viewer from present-day sin into unadulterated torture in the realms of Hell. The procession on the left side of this panel bends back into the middle ground, but the right side figures continue in a straight line as the wagon, giving the viewer a more evident progress into damnation. King Philip II of Spain purchased two copies of the work, both signed, one of which hangs in The Prado and the other of which remains at El Escorial."},{"label":"DBpedia:Blue_Nude_(Souvenir_de_Biskra)","descr":"Blue Nude (Souvenir of Biskra) (\"Nu bleu, Souvenir de Biskra\") is an early 1907 oil painting by Henri Matisse. It is located at the Baltimore Museum of Art as part of the Cone Collection. Matisse painted the nude when a sculpture he was working on shattered. He later finished the sculpture which is entitled Reclining Nude I (Aurore). Matisse shocked the French public at the 1907 Soci\u00e9t\u00e9 des Artistes Ind\u00e9pendants when he exhibited Blue Nude (Souvenir de Biskra). The Blue Nude was one of the paintings that would later create an international sensation at the Armory Show of 1913 in New York City. The painting, which may be classified as Fauvist, was controversial; it was burned in effigy in 1913 at the Armory Show in Chicago, to where it had toured from New York City. In 1907 the painting had a strong effect on Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso, partially motivating Picasso to create Les Demoiselles D'Avignon."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Guidobaldo_da_Montefeltro","descr":"The Portrait of Guidobaldo da Montefeltro is a picture by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael, dating from around 1506 and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence. It portrays Guidobaldo da Montefeltro, duke of Urbino."},{"label":"DBpedia:Fez_(Frank_Stella)","descr":"Fez is a 1964 painting by the modern artist Frank Stella. Multiple editions of the work exist, with one additionally in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Laundress_(Daumier)","descr":"The Laundress (La Blanchisseuse) (also known in En. as The Washerwoman) is an oil-on-panel painted by French artist Honor\u00e9 Daumier in 1863. It is currently held and exhibited at the Mus\u00e9e d'Orsay in Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Dog_(Goya)","descr":"The Dog is the name usually given to a painting by Spanish artist Francisco Goya, now in the Museo del Prado, Madrid. It shows the head of a small black dog gazing upwards. The dog itself is almost lost in the vastness of the rest of the image, which is empty except for a dark sloping area near the bottom of the picture: an unidentifiable mass which conceals the animal's body. The Dog is one of the Black Paintings Goya painted directly onto the walls of his house sometime between 1819 and 1823. He did not intend the paintings for public exhibition (they were not removed from the house until 50 years after Goya had left), so it is unlikely that he gave them titles."},{"label":"DBpedia:Presentation_of_the_Virgin_Mary_at_the_Temple_(Cima_da_Conegliano)","descr":"The Presentation of the Virgin Mary at the Temple is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Cima da Conegliano, c. 1496-1497, in the Gem\u00e4ldegalerie Alte Meister of Dresden, Germany, of the Presentation of Mary."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Yellow_House_(painting)","descr":"For other uses, see Yellow House (disambiguation). The Yellow House is the title generally given to an oil painting by the 19th-century Dutch Post-Impressionist painter Vincent van Gogh. This title refers to the right wing of the building, 2, Place Lamartine, Arles, France, the house where, on May 1, 1888, Vincent Van Gogh rented four rooms, two large ones on the ground floor to serve as atelier and kitchen, and, on the first floor, two smaller ones facing Place Lamartine. The window on the first floor near the corner with both shutters open is that of van Gogh's guest room, where Paul Gauguin lived for nine weeks from late October, 1888. Behind the next window, with one shutter closed, is Van Gogh's Bedroom. The two small rooms at the rear were rented by van Gogh at a later time. The left wing housed a grocery . The building suffered various rebuilding, before it was severely damaged in a bombing raid by the Allies on June 25, 1944 and was later demolished. Van Gogh indicated that the restaurant, where he used to have his meals, was in the building painted pink close to the left edge of the painting (28, Place Lamartine). It was run by Widow Venissac, who was also van Gogh's landlady, and who owned several of the other buildings depicted. To the right side of the Yellow House, the Avenue Montmajour runs down to the two railway bridges. The first line, with a train just passing, served the local connection to Lunel, which is on the opposite (that is, right) bank of river Rh\u00f4ne. The other line was owned by the P. -L. -M. Railway Company (Paris Lyon M\u00e9diterran\u00e9e) In the foreground to the left, there is an indication of the corner of the pedestrian walk, which surrounded one of the public gardens on Place Lamartine. The ditch running up Avenue Montmajour from the left towards the bridges served the gas pipe, which allowed Van Gogh a little later to have gas light installed in his atelier."},{"label":"DBpedia:Convent_Thoughts","descr":"Convent Thoughts is a painting by the Pre-Raphaelite painter Charles Allston Collins which was created between 1850 and 1851. Collins sent it to the Royal Academy of Arts in 1851 where it was exhibited. The painting shows a nun contemplating a passion flower symbolising the crucifixion of Christ. She is standing in a walled garden full of minutely detailed flowers. In her left hand she holds an illuminated missal, held not as though she had been reading it but so as to show us the Annunciation and the Crucifixion. Her costume shows that she is a novice, presumably meditating on her final vows. The flowers were painted in the Oxford garden of Thomas Combe, an early collector of Pre-Raphaelite paintings. Combe bought the painting; in 1894 he bequeathed his art collection to the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford and Convent Thoughts remains in the Museum's collection to the present day. Although Collins was never formally a member of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, he was in sympathy with their aims and painted in their immensely detailed style. Convent Thoughts has a place in the history of Pre-Raphaelitism, because the tide of opinion, initially hostile, was to some extent turned by a letter to The Times on 13 May 1851 from the influential critic John Ruskin praising the Pre-Raphaelite paintings at the Academy exhibition, in particular Convent Thoughts, about which he wrote: \"I happen to have a special acquaintance with the water plant Alisma Plantago ... and as I never saw it so thoroughly or so well drawn, I must take leave to remonstrate with you, when you say sweepingly that these men 'sacrifice truth as well as feeling to eccentricity. ' For as a mere botanical study of the Water Lily and Alisma, as well as of the common lily and several other garden flowers, this picture would be invaluable to me, and I heartily wish it were mine. \" In a curious footnote to this story, it has recently been pointed out that there is in fact no Alisma Plantago in the picture."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Music_Lesson","descr":"The Music Lesson or Lady at the Virginals with a Gentleman by Johannes Vermeer, also known as Jan Vermeer, is a painting of young female pupil receiving the titular music lesson. It has been estimated to have been painted between 1662 and 1665. The medium of the work is oil on canvas. It measures 74.6\u00a0cm by 64.1\u00a0cm."},{"label":"DBpedia:Judith_(Giorgione)","descr":"Judith is a painting by the Italian painter Giorgione. It is one of the few authentic works by Giorgione owned by the Russian Hermitage Museum. The painting, originally attributed to Raphael, came to the Hermitage in 1772 from Paris. Like many other paintings, it refers to the Judith and Holofernes motif."},{"label":"DBpedia:Medici_Madonna_(van_der_Weyden)","descr":"The Medici Madonna is an oil-on-panel painting by the Netherlandish artist Rogier van der Weyden, dating from around 1460\u20131464 and housed in the St\u00e4del, Frankfurt, Germany. The work is known to have been commissioned by the Medici family in Florence, as testified by the Florentine coat of arms with a red lily at the center of the lower step. The work has been variously dated from 1450\u20131451, when the artist travelled to Rome visiting several Italian courts, or from 1460\u20131464, the same years of the Lamentation of Christ, inspired by Beato Angelico and now at the Uffizi."},{"label":"DBpedia:Starry_Night_Over_the_Rhone","descr":"Starry Night Over the Rhone (September 1888) is one of Vincent van Gogh's paintings of Arles at night time in Arles; it was painted at a spot on the bank of the Rhone river that was only a minute or two's walk from the Yellow House on the Place Lamartine which Van Gogh was renting at the time. The night sky and the effects of light at night provided the subject for some of his more famous paintings, including Cafe Terrace at Night (painted earlier the same month) and the later canvas from Saint-R\u00e9my, The Starry Night. A sketch of the painting is included in a letter van Gogh sent to his friend Eug\u00e8ne Boch on October 2, 1888. The painting was first exhibited in 1889 at the annual exhibition of the Soci\u00e9t\u00e9 des Artistes Ind\u00e9pendants in Paris, together with the Irises. The latter was added by Theo, while Vincent had proposed one of his paintings from the public gardens in Arles, most probably the version now in the Phillips Collection."},{"label":"DBpedia:On_the_Contrary","descr":"On The Contrary is an oil on canvas painting by Kay Sage, painted in 1952. It is housed in the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis, Minnesota."},{"label":"DBpedia:Ill-Matched_Marriage","descr":"The Ill-Matched Marriage (also known as The Marriage Contract) is an oil painting executed by the early Netherlandish master Quentin Matsys, usually dated between 1525 and 1530. The panel, probably inspired by an original lost drawing of Leonardo da Vinci, illustrates an appealing subject in the history of art: the marriage for economic reasons between persons of different ages. The painting is presently housed in the S\u00e3o Paulo Museum of Art. It was donated to the museum in 1965, by the Baron Hans Heinrich Thyssen-Bornemisza."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Magpie_(Monet)","descr":"The Magpie is an oil-on-canvas landscape painting by the French Impressionist Claude Monet, created during the winter of 1868\u20131869 near the commune of \u00c9tretat in Normandy. Monet's patron, Louis Joachim Gaudibert, helped arrange a house in \u00c9tretat for Monet's girlfriend Camille Doncieux and their newborn son, allowing Monet to paint in relative comfort, surrounded by his family. Between 1867 and 1893, Monet and fellow Impressionists Alfred Sisley and Camille Pissarro painted hundreds of landscapes illustrating the natural effect of snow (effet de neige). Similar winter paintings of lesser quantity were produced by Pierre-Auguste Renoir, Gustave Caillebotte, and Paul Gauguin. Art historians believe that a series of severe winters in France contributed to an increase in the number of winter landscapes produced by Impressionists. The Magpie is one of approximately 140 snowscapes produced by Monet. His first snowscape, A Cart on the Snowy Road at Honfleur, was painted sometime in either 1865 or 1867, followed by a notable series of snowscapes in the same year, beginning with the Road by Saint-Simeon Farm in Winter. The Magpie was completed in 1869 and is Monet's largest winter painting. It was followed by The Red Cape (1869\u20131871), the only known winter painting featuring Camille Doncieux. The canvas of The Magpie depicts a solitary black magpie perched on a gate formed in a wattle fence, as the light of the sun shines upon freshly fallen snow creating blue shadows. The painting features one of the first examples of Monet's use of colored shadows, which would later become associated with the Impressionist movement. Monet and the Impressionists used colored shadows to represent the actual, changing conditions of light and shadow as seen in nature, challenging the academic convention of painting shadows black. This subjective theory of color perception was introduced to the art world through the works of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and Michel Eug\u00e8ne Chevreul earlier in the century. At the time, Monet's innovative use of light and color led to its rejection by the Paris Salon of 1869. Today, art historians classify The Magpie as one of Monet's best snowscape paintings. The painting was privately held until the Mus\u00e9e d'Orsay acquired it in 1984; it is considered one of the most popular paintings in their permanent collection."},{"label":"DBpedia:Christ_in_the_Desert","descr":"Christ in the Desert, or Christ in the Wilderness (Russian: \"\u0425\u0440\u0438\u0441\u0442\u043e\u0441 \u0432 \u043f\u0443\u0441\u0442\u044b\u043d\u0435\") is a painting by Russian artist Ivan Kramskoi, reflecting the Fasting of Christ. Kramskoi was offered a professorship for the painting by the Russian Academy of Arts Council, but having learned that in the beginning of 1873, rejected it (he had been expelled from the Academy earlier, and chose to keep his \"youthful commitment to independence from the Academy\"). Subsequently it became one of the favourite paintings of Pavel Tretyakov, who bought it for his gallery in the year the painting was finished."},{"label":"DBpedia:Hiroshima_Nagasaki_One-Minute","descr":"Hiroshima Nagasaki One-Minute is the subject of two mural-scale paintings made by Nabil Kanso in 1978-79. One is titled 49-Second (Hiroshima) done in oil on canvas measuring 3 X 5.50 meters (10 X 18 feet), the other 11-Seconds (Nagasaki) oil-on-canvas triptych measuring 3 X 4.60 meters (10 X 14 feet) center, and 2.75 X 1.32 meters (9 X 6 feet) each side."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Birth_of_Venus_(Cabanel)","descr":"The Birth of Venus is a painting by the French artist Alexandre Cabanel (1823\u20131889). It was painted in 1863, and is now in the Mus\u00e9e d'Orsay in Paris. A second and smaller version (85 x 135.9\u00a0cm) from ca. 1864 is in Dahesh Museum of Art. A third (106 x 182.6\u00a0cm) version dates from 1875; it is in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. Shown to great success at the Paris Salon of 1863, The Birth of Venus was immediately purchased by Napoleon III for his own personal collection. That same year Cabanel was made a professor of the Ecole des Beaux-Arts. Cabanel's erotic imagery, cloaked in historicism, appealed to the propriety of the higher levels of society. Art historian and curator Robert Rosenblum wrote of Cabanel's The Birth of Venus that \"This Venus hovers somewhere between an ancient deity and a modern dream\"; he described \"the ambiguity of her eyes, that seem to be closed but that a close look reveals that she is awake ... A nude who could be asleep or awake is specially formidable for a male viewer\". Cabanel was a determined opponent of the Impressionists, especially \u00c9douard Manet, although the refusal of the academic establishment to realize the importance of new ideas and sources of inspiration would eventually prove to be the undoing of the Academy."},{"label":"DBpedia:Madonna_with_Child_(Crivelli)","descr":"The Madonna with Child by Renaissance artist Carlo Crivelli is a Madonna painting dating to 1470. It was painted with tempera on wood, then transferred to canvas. It was a piece of an altar in the Church of the Osservanti in Macerata, Marche, Italy. It is now located in the Pinacoteca di Macerata."},{"label":"DBpedia:Strolling_Actresses_Dressing_in_a_Barn","descr":"Strolling Actresses Dressing in a Barn is a painting from 1738 by British artist William Hogarth. It was reproduced as an engraving and issued with Four Times of the Day as a five print set in the same year. The painting depicts a company of actresses preparing for their final performance before the troupe is disbanded as a result of the Licensing Act 1737. Brought in as a result of John Gay's Beggar's Opera of 1728, which had linked Robert Walpole with the notorious criminal Jonathan Wild, the Licensing Act made it compulsory for new plays to be approved by the Lord Chamberlain, and, more importantly for the characters depicted, closed any non-patent theatres. The majority of the painting was completed before the Act was passed in 1737, but its passing into law was no surprise and it was the work of a moment for Hogarth to insert a reference to the Act itself into the picture. While not part of the Four Times of the Day series it appears that it was Hogarth's intention from the outset to sell the five prints together, Strolling Actresses complemented Four Times just as Southwark Fair had done with A Rake's Progress. Whereas the characters in Four Times play their roles without being conscious of acting, the company in this picture are fully aware of the differences between the reality of their lives and the roles they are set to play. Some of the goddesses portrayed by the inhabitants of the scenes in Four Times of the Day are reproduced here as characters in the forthcoming play. The troupe are preparing for the play The Devil to Pay in Heaven, a fiction that was probably intended as a satire on the mystery plays which were heavily controlled by the church. Hogarth contrasts the roles of gods and goddesses that appear in the play with the mortal reality at every turn. The leaky, draughty barn stands in for the heavens in which they will shortly be play acting. The playbill on the bed introduces the cast and aids the viewer in identifying the figures portrayed: Diana, Flora, Juno, Night, Siren, Aurora, Eagle, Cupid, two Devils, a Ghost and attendants. Like other Hogarth prints, such as Southwark Fair and The Enraged Musician, a pretty woman takes centre stage - in this case, Diana, identifiable by her crescent moon headdress, practising her pose. She imitates the Diana of Versailles, but she looks foolish as she has neither quiver nor arrows. Her hooped petticoat has fallen to her feet, exposing her thighs, and the low neckline of her shirt reveals her breasts; she is anything but the chaste goddess. She acknowledges the attention of the viewer with a slight smile. To her left Flora, is dusting her hair with a flour-shaker in front of a broken mirror propped up by a candle, in an effort to prepare herself for the role of the fertility goddess. Cupid \"floats\" above them with the aid of a ladder, fetching two stockings for Apollo, identifiable from the sun on her head, who points out theig hanging place, on a cloud beneath a dragon, with the aid of a bow. Next to the actress playing Diana, two children dressed as devils help themselves to a mug of beer left on the altar like a sacrifice. A woman next to them (possibly their mother) is shocked by their behaviour but has her hands full assisting the \"ghost\" to bleed a cat from its tail. As with many of Hogarth's cats, this one is reaping the rewards of life as an outsider. An old wives' tale of the time claimed that to recover from a bad fall you should suck the blood from the freshly amputated tail of a tom cat. Here the cat has the role forced upon it in the same way as the actresses fill inappropriate roles. Above the women in this corner, a face peers down through the opening in the barn roof. Here a low mortal looks down on the gods from heaven, rather than the other way round. He fills the role of Actaeon, who accidentally saw Diana naked and was changed into a stag and torn apart by his own hounds as punishment. Here though the viewing of Diana is intentional. In the right foreground, Juno practices her lines, while Night, identifiable by her star-spangled headdress, darns a hole in her stocking. In front of Night and Juno is Hogarth's take on a vanitas, but here the symbols of death are replaced by comic figures: a monkey wearing a cloak urinates into a helmet; one kitten plays with an orb while another plays with a harp; bags and coffee pots litter the table. The monkey and kittens presumably fill the roles of attendants mentioned in the playbill; their play acting as a human serves to highlight further the difference between acting and reality. To the left of the picture, Ganymede, who is not yet fully dressed, accepts a drink of gin to ease the pain of his toothache from the Siren, who is being attended by Aurora, identified by the morning star on her headdress. In the foreground Jove's eagle feeds her child, the food rests on a crown with a small folded paper bearing the title The Act against Strolling Players. Next to her, Ganymede's breeches lie on the small bed adjacent to the playbill which is slipping perilously close to the chamberpot. Horace Walpole (the son of Robert Walpole, the First Lord of the Treasury, who had pushed through the Licensing Act) rated Strolling Actresses as Hogarth's greatest work \"for wit and imagination, without any other end\", but Charles Lamb, while acknowledging the sense of activity and camaraderie, found the characters lacking in expressiveness. The engraving was first published on 25 March 1738, along with Four Times of the Day. The painting was sold at auction along with the original paintings for A Harlot's Progress, A Rake's Progress and Four Times of the Day in January 1745, but was destroyed in a fire at Littleton House near Staines in 1874."},{"label":"DBpedia:Indian_Widow","descr":"Indian Widow is a painting by Joseph Wright of Derby, completed in late 1783 or early 1784 and first shown in his solo exhibition in London in 1785. The painting is now on display at Derby Museum and Art Gallery, Derby, England."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Fall_of_the_Damned","descr":"The Fall of the Damned, conversely known as The Fall of the Rebel Angels is a monumental religious painting by Peter Paul Rubens. It features a jumble of the bodies of the damned, hurled into abyss by archangel Michael and accompanying angels. David Freedberg assessed this painting manner as the \"most brilliant assemblages of lusciously naked flesh in Western art\". In 1959 an art vandal threw an acid on the painting. According to him, he did not directly destroy the work, but the acid \"relieves one from the work of destruction\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Captive_(painting)","descr":"The Captive, from Sterne is a painting by Joseph Wright of Derby completed in 1774 and now in the Vancouver Art Gallery. Sterne's Captive, first exhibited by the artist in 1778, is a similar painting by Wright in the Derby Museum and Art Gallery. The latter painting resulted in a very rare engraving, as its purchaser commissioned a print run of only twenty copies before the copper printing plate was destroyed. In 2012, Derby Museum commissioned another Captive painting from Emma Tooth."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Fourth_Estate_(painting)","descr":"The Fourth Estate is a famous picture painted by Giuseppe Pellizza da Volpedo in 1901, originally entitled The path of workers."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portraits_at_the_Stock_Exchange","descr":"Portraits at the Stock Exchange (also known as At the Bourse) is a painting by French artist Edgar Degas. Completed circa 1879, this painting is interpreted as an anti-Semitic depiction of Jews in Paris, due especially to the exaggerated features and postures of the subjects. In Europe during the late 19th century there were fears of a financial conspiracy, in which Jewish financiers were thought to manipulate business for their gain. In fact, Degas's anti-Semitism may have been fueled by the bankruptcy of his own family's banking business, leaving Degas with some degree of resentment toward banking and those who symbolized it. Portraits, At the Stock Exchange also falls under the Impressionism movement of painting. Evidence for this can be seen in the painting's quick, somewhat abstract brushstrokes. The psychological perspective of the painting is one of detachment, a common viewpoint in Impressionist paintings. This painting currently resides in the Mus\u00e9e d'Orsay in Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:Spoliarium","descr":"The Spoliarium (often misspelled Spolarium) is a painting by Filipino artist Juan Luna. The painting was submitted by Luna to the Exposici\u00f3n Nacional de Bellas Artes in 1884 in Madrid, where it garnered the first gold medal (out of three). In 1886, it was sold to the Diputaci\u00f3n Provincial de Barcelona for 20,000 pesetas. It currently hangs in the main gallery at the ground floor of the National Museum of the Philippines, and is the first work of art that greets visitors upon entry into the museum."},{"label":"DBpedia:Adoration_of_the_Magi_(Stefano_da_Verona)","descr":"The Adoration of the Magi is a Gothic painting by Stefano da Verona. Dating to 1434, it is currently housed in the Pinacoteca di Brera of Milan, northern Italy. The work is signed (Stefanus) and dated, although this has been disputed by several scholars. It is however mentioned by Vasari in his Lives, and was anyway painted by the artist between his return to Verona (1425) and his death (1438). In the 19th century it was owned by the Ottolini family of Verona, who ceded it to Domenico Biasoli. The latter sold it in 1818 to the Pinacoteca di Brera, as a work by Stefano Fiorentino."},{"label":"DBpedia:Around_the_Piano","descr":"Around the Piano is an 1885 painting by French artist Henri Fantin-Latour. It was exhibited at the Paris Salon the same year, then was bought by Adolphe Jullien. In 1915, it was gave to the Mus\u00e9e du Luxembourg, then was at the Mus\u00e9e du Louvre until 1986. It is currently kept at the Mus\u00e9e d'Orsay in Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:Annunciation_(Ambrogio_Lorenzetti)","descr":"The Annunciation is a painting by the Italian late medieval painter Ambrogio Lorenzetti, signed and dated 1344, now housed in the Pinacoteca Nazionale of Siena, Italy. It was painted for the Ufficio della Gabella (\"Office of the Tax\") of the commune of Siena, as specified by two-line signature at the bottom (the painter named himself Ambruogio Lorenzi). It was originally located in the Consistory Hall of the Palazzo Pubblico."},{"label":"DBpedia:St_Mark's_Body_Brought_to_Venice","descr":"St Mark's Body Brought to Venice or Translation of the Body of Saint Mark is a painting by Tintoretto. It was produced between 1562 and 1566 as part of a series of works on saint Mark for the Sala Capitolare of the Scuola Grande di San Marco - the others were Miracle of the Slave and Finding of the body of St Mark. It is now held in the gallerie dell'Accademia in Venice."},{"label":"DBpedia:Bathers_at_Asni%C3%A8res","descr":"Bathers at Asni\u00e8res (French: Une Baignade, Asni\u00e8res) is an oil-on-canvas painting by the French artist Georges Pierre Seurat, the first of his two masterpieces on the monumental scale. The canvas is of a suburban, but placid Parisian riverside scene. Isolated figures, with their clothes piled sculpturally on the riverbank, together with trees, austere boundary walls and buildings, and the River Seine are presented in a formal layout. A combination of complex brushstroke techniques, and a meticulous application of contemporary colour theory bring to the composition a sense of gentle vibrancy and timelessness. Seurat completed the painting of Bathers at Asni\u00e8res in 1884, when he was twenty-four years old. He applied to the jury of the Salon of the same year to have the work exhibited there, but the jury rejected it. The Bathers continued to puzzle many of Seurat\u2019s contemporaries, and the picture was not widely acclaimed until many years after the death of the artist at the age of just thirty-one. An appreciation of the painting\u2019s merits grew during the twentieth century, and today it hangs in the National Gallery, London, where it is considered one of the highlights of the gallery\u2019s collection of paintings."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Open_Window","descr":"The Open Window, also known as Open Window, Collioure, is a painting by Henri Matisse. The work, an oil on canvas, was painted in 1905. It was bequeathed in 1998 by the estate of Mrs. John Hay Whitney to the National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC.. It is an example of the Fauvist style of painting that Matisse became famous for, and for which he was a leader, roughly between the years 1900\u20131909. The Open Window depicts the view out the window of his apartment in Collioure, on the Southern coast of France. We see sailboats on the water, as viewed from Matisse's hotel window overlooking the harbor. He returned frequently to the theme of the open window in Paris and especially during the years in Nice and Etretat, and in his final years, particularly during the late 1940s."},{"label":"DBpedia:Coronation_of_the_Virgin_(Fra_Angelico,_Louvre)","descr":"The Coronation of the Virgin is a painting of the Coronation of the Virgin by the Italian early Renaissance master Fra Angelico, executed around 1434-1435. It is now in the Mus\u00e9e du Louvre of Paris, France. The artist executed another Coronation of the Virgin (c. 1432), now in the Uffizi in Florence."},{"label":"DBpedia:Woman_with_a_Pearl_Necklace","descr":"Woman with a Pearl Necklace by Johannes Vermeer is a seventeenth century Northern European painting. Painted in oils on canvas, Johannes Vermeer portrayed a young Dutch woman, most likely of upper-class-descent, dressing herself with two yellow ribbons, pearl earrings, and a pearl necklace. As a very popular artist of the 17th and 18th centuries, the Dutch Golden Age, Vermeer depicted many women in similar circumstances within interior, domestic scenes. The same woman also appears in The Love Letter and A Lady Writing a Letter."},{"label":"DBpedia:Lady_Seated_at_a_Virginal","descr":"Lady Seated at a Virginal, also known as Young Woman Seated at a Virginal, is a genre painting created by Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer in about 1670-1672 and now in the National Gallery, London. Both the National Gallery, London and the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York name their separate paintings of women seated at virginals A Young Woman Seated at a Virginal, although they are quite separate works and are each known by alternate names. (The New York museum's painting is also known as A Young Woman Seated at the Virginals. ) The picture shows a woman facing left and playing a virginal. In the left foreground is a viola da gamba holding a bow between its strings. A landscape is painted on the inside lid of the virginal, and the painting on the wall is either the original or a copy of The Procuress by Dirck van Baburen, which belonged to Vermeer's mother-in-law. It is unclear whether or how much the subject of The Procuress is intended to reflect on the meaning of this work, although \"It is probable that a more general association between music and love is intended. \" At the upper left, a tapestry is used to frame the scene, and in the lower right the foot of the back wall is decorated with Delft tiles. Because of its style, the painting has been dated to about 1670. It has been suggested that it and Lady Standing at a Virginal (also owned by the National Gallery) may have been created as pendants, because their sizes, date and subject matter are all similar, yet their provenances before the 19th century differ, and Vermeer sometimes varied a theme in otherwise unrelated paintings. In the 19th century, both paintings were owned by the art critic Th\u00e9ophile Thor\u00e9, whose writings led to a resurgence of interest in Vermeer starting in 1866. The painting entered the National Gallery with the Salting Bequest in 1910."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_First_Mourning","descr":"The First Mourning (in French Premier Deuil) is an oil on canvas painted in 1888 by William-Adolphe Bouguereau. Its dimensions are: 79 \/8 \u00d7 99 \/8 inches (203 \u00d7 252\u00a0cm). This piece of art can be seen at the Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes (Spanish for National Museum of Fine Arts) in Buenos Aires, Argentina. This work depicts the moment after Adam and Eve just found the body of their son Abel, who was murdered by Cain. According to the biblical account, this was the first human death. William-Adolphe Bouguereau had suffered the loss of his second son shortly before painting this work. Its original name is \"Premier Deuil\", in French, of which \"The First Mourning\" is a literal translation."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Sorrows_of_the_King","descr":"The Sorrows of the King is a collage using cut out paper shapes by Henri Matisse from 1952. It was made from paper he had coloured with gouache paint and is mounted on canvas. Its size is 292 x 386\u00a0cm. It is his final self-portrait. During the early-to-mid-1940s Matisse was in poor health. Eventually by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. The Sorrows of the King, is an example of Matisse's final body of works known as the cutouts."},{"label":"DBpedia:San_Giobbe_Altarpiece","descr":"The San Giobbe Altarpiece is a c. 1487 oil painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, now in the Accademia Gallery in Venice."},{"label":"DBpedia:Visitation_(Raphael)","descr":"The Visitation is a c. 1517 painting of the Visitation of the Virgin Mary to Saint Elizabeth by Raphael, in the Prado Museum since 1837. Commissioned by the Apostolic Protonotary Giovanni Branconio at his father Marino's request for their family chapel in the church of San Silvestre in Aquila (Marino's wife was called Elisabeth), it was plundered by the occupation troops of Philip IV of Spain in 1655 and placed at El Escorial."},{"label":"DBpedia:Breezing_Up_(A_Fair_Wind)","descr":"Breezing Up (A Fair Wind) is an oil painting by American artist Winslow Homer. It depicts a catboat called the Gloucester chopping through that city's harbor under \"a fair wind\" (Homer's original title). Inside the boat are a man, three boys, and their catch. Homer began the canvas in New York in 1873, after he had visited Gloucester, Massachusetts, where he first worked in watercolor. He used the sketches made there, of which the most closely related is Sailing the Catboat (1873), for the oil painting, which he worked on over three years. Infrared reflectography has revealed the many changes he made to the composition during this time, including the removal of a fourth boy near the mast and a second schooner in the distance. At one point the adult held both the sheet and the tiller, a position initially adapted from an oil study of 1874 titled The Flirt. The painting's message is positive; despite the choppy waves, the boaters look relaxed. The anchor that replaced the boy in the bow was understood to symbolize hope. The boy holding the tiller looks forward to the horizon, a statement of optimism about his future and that of the young United States. The finished work indicates that the significant influence of Japanese art on Western painters in the 19th century also touched Homer, particularly in the compositional balance between the left (active) and right (sparse) halves. Homer had visited France in 1866 and 1867, and the influence of marine scenes by the French painters Gustave Courbet and Claude Monet is apparent as well. Not all of Homer's sea pictures are so benevolent as Breezing Up: he portrayed waves crashing ashore as did Courbet (see for example The Wave, c. 1869). Monet's relatively early paintings Seascape: Storm (1867) and The Green Wave (1866) show boats on somewhat turbulent seas. Completed in the centennial year 1876, the painting was first exhibited at the National Academy of Design that year, then at the Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia. By 1879, it had come to be known as Breezing Up, a title that was not the artist's but one which he did not seem to object to. A contemporary critic described the painting: \"It is painted in [Homer's Homer's] customary coarse and neglig\u00e9 style, but suggests with unmistakable force the life and motion of a breezy summer day off the coast. The fishing boat, bending to the wind, seems actually to cleave the waves. There is no truer or heartier work in the exhibition. \" Another wrote, \"Much has already been said in praise of the easy, elastic motion of the figures of the party in the sailboat, which is scudding along through blue water under 'a fair wind. ' They sway with the rolling boat, and relax or grow rigid as the light keel rises or sinks upon the waves. Every person who has been similarly situated can recall how, involuntarily, his back stiffened or his knees bent as he felt the roll of the waves beneath him. \" Today, Breezing Up is considered an iconic American painting, and among Homer's finest. The National Gallery of Art purchased the work in 1943, described by the institution's web site as \"one of the best-known and most beloved artistic images of life in nineteenth-century America.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Face_of_War","descr":"The Face of War (The Visage of War; in Spanish La Cara de la Guerra) (1940) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dal\u00ed. It was painted during a brief period when the artist lived in California. The trauma and the view of war had often served as inspiration for Dal\u00ed\u2019s work. He sometimes believed his artistic vision to be premonitions of war. This work was painted between the end of the Spanish Civil War and beginning of the Second World War. The painting depicts a disembodied face hovering against a barren desert landscape. The face is withered like that of a corpse and wears an expression of misery. In its mouth and eye sockets are identical faces. In their mouths and eyes are more identical faces in a process implied to be infinite. Swarming around the large face are biting serpents. In the lower right corner is a hand print that Dal\u00ed insisted was left by his own hand."},{"label":"DBpedia:Gassed_(painting)","descr":"Gassed is a very large oil painting completed in March 1919 by John Singer Sargent. It depicts the aftermath of a mustard gas attack during the First World War, with a line of wounded soldiers walking towards a dressing station. Sargent was commissioned by the British War Memorials Committee to document the war and visited the Western Front in July 1918 spending time with the Guards Division near Arras, and then with the American Expeditionary Forces near Ypres. The painting was finished in March 1919 and voted picture of the year by the Royal Academy of Arts in 1919. It is now held by the Imperial War Museum."},{"label":"DBpedia:Miravan_Breaking_Open_the_Tomb_of_his_Ancestors","descr":"Miravan Breaking Open the Tomb of his Ancestors is a painting by Joseph Wright of Derby originally completed in 1772 ."},{"label":"DBpedia:Le_Bateau","descr":"Le Bateau (\"The Boat\") is a paper-cut from 1953 by Henri Matisse. The picture is composed from pieces of paper cut out of sheets painted with gouache, and was created during the last years of Matisse's life."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Descent_from_the_Cross","descr":"The Descent from the Cross is the central panel of a triptych painting by Peter Paul Rubens in 1612-1614. The painting is the second of Rubens's great altarpieces for the Cathedral of Our Lady, Antwerp, Belgium, along with The Elevation of the Cross. The subject was one Rubens returned to again and again in his career. This particular work was commissioned on September 7, 1611, by the Confraternity of the Arquebusiers, whose Patron Saint was St. Christopher. Although essentially Baroque, the oil on panel piece is rooted in the Venetian tradition, and likely influenced by the work of Daniele da Volterra, Federico Barocci and Cigoli, amongst others. In its composition and use of light, the triptych recalls Caravaggio's Roman period. Sequentially, the triptych describes the Visitation, the Descent from the Cross, and the Presentation of Jesus at the Temple. Theophile Silvestre wrote, in his \"On Rubens' Descent from the Cross - 1868\": \u201cThe principal subject is composed of nine figures: at the top of two ladders, workers are lowering the body of Christ with the aid of a shroud which one of them holds in his teeth, the other in the left hand. Bracing themselves firmly against the arms of the cross, each bends forward to guide the Christ with the hand that is left free while St. John, with one foot on the ladder and his back arched, supports him most energetically. One of Savior\u2019s feet comes to rest on the beautiful shoulder of the Magdalene, grazing her golden hair. Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus, placed midway on ladders so as to face each other, form, together with the two workmen in the upper part of the picture, a square of vigorous but plebeian figures. The Virgin, standing at the foot of the sacrificial tree, extends her arms towards her Son; Salome (properly, Mary Cleophas), kneeling, gathers up her robe. On the ground are seen the superscription and a copper basin where the crown of thorns and the nails of the Crucifixion lie in the congealed blood. The crowd, always elated by the spectacle of torture, has departed from Golgotha as daylight fades. After the sacrifice of Calvary, as it is called in Scripture, the sad, dark sky is crossed by a light that illumines the shoulders of the workmen, whose bold posture recalls the composition by Daniele da Volterra\". The altarpiece has been located in Antwerp's Cathedral of Our Lady since it was painted, but Napoleon took the painting and The Elevation of the Cross to Paris during his rule. They were returned to the cathedral in the late 1800s."},{"label":"DBpedia:Little_Machine_Constructed_by_Minimax_Dadamax_in_Person","descr":"Little Machine Constructed by Minimax Dadamax in Person (Von minimax dadamax selbst konstruiertes maschinchen) (1919\u201320) is a mixed-media work of art by the German dadaist\/surrealist Max Ernst. This is probably the most famous example of a series of Ernst\u2019s works that were based on diagrams of scientific instruments. This work began by creating print reproductions of these diagrams. They were then colored and textured with a combination of watercolor, gouache and pencil and ink frottage. Frottage is a technique created by Ernst that involves creating rubbings of different textured surfaces like wood and textiles to give the work a three dimensional appearance. This work also displays Ernst\u2019s interest in typography. Many of the shapes in the machine can be seen as letters. At the bottom is an inscription that reads \"Little machine constructed by Minimax Dadamax in person for fearless pollination of female suckers at the beginning of the change of life and for other such fearless functions.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_a_Musician","descr":"Portrait of a Musician is an oil on wood painting attributed to Leonardo da Vinci by some scholars. It was probably painted in 1490. The man in the painting was at one time thought to be Franchino Gaffurio, who was the maestro di cappella of the Milanese Cathedral. Although some believe it to be a portrait of Gaffurio, others think the man is famous Leonardo da Pistoia (monk) of the court of Cosimo de' Medici painted after his discovery of the ancien texts of the Corpus Hermeticus or an anonymous courtman. The piece of paper he holds is at least one part of a musical score; it has notes written on it. The painting was greatly restored and repainted, and Leonardo probably left the portrait unfinished but close to completion. The man is positioned in a three-quarter position and he is holding a partition sheet. The musician stares at something outside the spectator's field of vision. Compared to the detailed face of the musician, the red hat, his tunic and his hair seem to be painted by a completely other painter. Art historians have recognized the fine art of da Vinci in the young man's face, though the partition sheet and his hand may have been added on to the original work. Siegfried Woldhek, a Dutch illustrator, has claimed that 'Portrait of a Musician' is one of three self-portraits by Leonardo."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Awakening_Conscience","descr":"The Awakening Conscience (1853) is an oil-on-canvas painting by English artist William Holman Hunt, one of the founders of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, which depicts a young woman rising from her position in the lap of a man and gazing transfixed out of the window of a room. Initially the painting would appear to be one of a momentary disagreement between husband and wife, or brother and sister, but the title and a host of symbols within the painting make it clear that this is a mistress and her lover. The woman's clasped hands provide a focal point and the position of her left hand emphasizes the absence of a wedding ring. Around the room are dotted reminders of her \"kept\" status and her wasted life: the cat beneath the table toying with a bird; the clock concealed under glass; a tapestry which hangs unfinished on the piano; the threads which lie unravelled on the floor; the print of Frank Stone's Cross Purposes on the wall; Edward Lear's musical arrangement of Tennyson's poem \"Tears, Idle Tears\" which lies discarded on the floor, and the music on the piano, Thomas Moore's \"Oft in the Stilly Night\", the words of which speak of missed opportunities and sad memories of a happier past. The discarded glove and top hat thrown on the table top suggest a hurried assignation. The room is too cluttered and gaudy to be in a Victorian family home; the bright colours, unscuffed carpet, and pristine, highly-polished furniture speak of a room recently furnished for a mistress. Art historian Elizabeth Prettejohn notes that although the interior is now viewed as \"Victorian\" it still exudes the \"'nouveau-riche' vulgarity\" that would have made the setting distasteful to contemporary viewers. The painting's frame is decorated with further symbols: bells (for warning), marigolds (for sorrow), and a star above the girl's head (a sign of spiritual revelation). It also bears a verse from the Book of Proverbs : \"As he that taketh away a garment in cold weather, so is he that singeth songs to an heavy heart\". The mirror on the rear wall provides a tantalizing glimpse out of the scene. The window \u2014 opening out onto a spring garden, in direct contrast to the images of entrapment within the room \u2014 is flooded with sunlight. The woman's face does not display a look of shock that she has been surprised with her lover; whatever attracts her is outside of both the room and her relationship. The Athen\u00e6um commented in 1854: The author of \"The Bridge of Sighs\" could not have conceived a more painful-looking face. The details of the picture, the reflection of the spring trees in the mirror, the piano, the bronze under the lamp, are wonderfully true, but the dull indigoes and reds of the picture make it melancholy and appropriate, and not pleasing in tone. The sentiment is of the Ernest Maltravers School: to those who have an affinity for it, painful; to those who have not, repulsive. In some ways this painting is a companion to Hunt's Christian painting The Light of the World, a picture of Christ holding a lantern as he knocks on an overgrown handleless door which Hunt said represented \"the obstinately shut mind\". The young woman here could be responding to that image, her conscience pricked by something outside of herself. Hunt intended this image to be The Light of the World's \"material counterpart in a picture representing in actual life the manner in which the appeal of the spirit of heavenly love calls a soul to abandon a lower life. \" In Pre-Raphaelitism and the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood Hunt wrote that Peggotty's search for Emily in David Copperfield had given him the idea for the composition and he began to visit \"different haunts of fallen girls\" looking for a suitable setting. He did not plan to recreate any particular scene from David Copperfield; he initially wanted to capture something more general: \"the loving seeker of the fallen girl coming upon the object of his search\", but he reconsidered, deciding that such a meeting would engender different emotions in the girl than the repentance he wanted to show. He eventually settled on the idea that the girl's companion could be singing a song that suddenly reminded her of her former life and thereby act as the unknowing catalyst for her epiphany. The model for the girl was Annie Miller, who sat for many of the Pre-Raphaelites and to whom Hunt was engaged until 1859. The male figure may be based on Thomas Seddon or Augustus Egg, both painter friends of Hunt. The look on the girl's face in the modern painting is not the look of pain and horror that viewers saw when the painting was first exhibited, and which shocked and repulsed many of the contemporary critics. The painting was commissioned by Thomas Fairbairn, a Manchester industrialist and patron of the Pre-Raphaelites who later succeeded his father as 2nd Baronet, after Egg discussed Hunt's ideas and possibly showed him some of the initial sketches. Fairbairn paid Hunt 350 guineas. The painting was exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1854, along with The Light of the World. Fairbairn found himself unable to bear looking on the woman's expression day-to-day, so persuaded Hunt to soften it. Hunt started work but fell ill and allowed the painting to be returned to Fairbairn for display at the Birmingham Society of Artists exhibition in 1856 before he was completely happy with the result. Later he was able to work on it again and confided to Edward Lear that he thought he had \"materially bettered it\". As noted in the spandrels, Hunt retouched the painting in 1864 and again in 1886 when he repaired some work that had been carried out by a restorer in the interim. The Victorian art theorist John Ruskin praised The Awakening Conscience as an example of a new direction in British art in which the narrative was created from the artist's imagination rather than chronicling an event. Ruskin's reading of the painting was also to a moral end. In an 1854 letter to The Times defending the work, he claimed that there is \"not a single object in all that room... but it becomes tragical if read rightly\". He was struck by both the stark realism of the room \u2014 Hunt had hired a room in a \"maison de covenance\" (where lovers would take their mistresses) in order to capture the feeling \u2014 and the symbolic overtones and compared the revelation of the subjects' characters through the interiors favourably with that of William Hogarth's Marriage \u00e0-la-mode. The \"common, modern, vulgar\" interior is overwhelmed by lustrous, unworn objects that will never be part of a home. To Ruskin, the exquisite detail of the painting only called attention to the inevitable ruin of the couple: \"The very hem of the poor girl's dress, at which the painter has laboured so closely, thread by thread, has story in it, if we think how soon its pure whiteness may be soiled with dust and rain, her outcast feet failing in the street\". The idea of a visual morality tale, based on a single moment, influenced Augustus Egg's 1858 series of three paintings, Past and Present. The painting was inherited by Fairbairn's son, Sir Arthur Henderson Fairbairn, 3rd Baronet. It was sold anonymously at Christie's in January 1946 and had been bought by Colin Anderson by 1947. It was donated to the Tate Gallery by Sir Colin and Lady Anderson in 1976."},{"label":"DBpedia:Maria_Sk%C5%82odowska-Curie_Medallion","descr":"The Maria Sk\u0142odowska-Curie Medallion is one panel from a set of four created by Jozef C. Mazur. It currently resides in the Polish Room at the University at Buffalo Libraries."},{"label":"DBpedia:Blind_Man's_Bluff_(Fragonard)","descr":"Blind man's bluff is a painting by the French Roccoco painter Jean Honor\u00e9 Fragonard, produced around 1769 in oil on canvas. It is full of deceptions \u2013 the girl is looking out from under her blindfold and the game seems to be a pretext leading to seduction; the two figures are in pastoral costume, but may be noble or bourgeois figures playing at being pastoral figures; the background seems to be a wood but could be a stage set. In short, it seems to abolish the boundary between truth and lies, reality and fiction."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Finding_of_the_Saviour_in_the_Temple","descr":"The Finding of the Saviour in the Temple (1854\u201360) is a painting by William Holman Hunt intended as an ethnographically accurate version of the subject traditionally known as \"Christ Among the Doctors\", an illustration of the child Jesus debating the interpretation of the scripture with learned rabbis. The passage illustrated is from the Gospel of Luke, 2:41, which states: Every year his parents went to Jerusalem for the Feast of the Passover. When he was twelve years old, they went up to the Feast, according to the custom. After the Feast was over, while his parents were returning home, the boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem, but they were unaware of it. Thinking he was in their company, they traveled on for a day. Then they began looking for him among their relatives and friends. When they did not find him, they went back to Jerusalem to look for him. After three days they found him in the temple courts, sitting among the teachers, listening to them and asking them questions. Everyone who heard him was amazed at his understanding and his answers. When his parents saw him, they were astonished. His mother said to him, \"Son, why have you treated us like this? Your father and I have been anxiously searching for you. \" \"Why were you searching for me?\" he asked. \"Didn't you know I had to be in my Father's house?\" But they did not understand what he was saying to them. Hunt depicts the moment at which Mary and Joseph find Jesus, while the rabbis in the temple are reacting in various contrasting ways to his discourse, some intrigued, others angry or dismissive. This depiction of contrasting reactions is part of the tradition of the subject, as evidenced in Albrecht D\u00fcrer's much earlier version. Hunt would also have known Bernardino Luini's version of the subject in the National Gallery. At the time this was ascribed to Leonardo da Vinci."},{"label":"DBpedia:A_break_away!","descr":"A break away! is an 1891 painting by Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting depicts a mob of thirsty sheep stampeding towards a dam. A drover on horseback is attempting to turn the mob before they drown or crush each other in their desire to drink. The painting, an \"icon of Australian art\", is part of a series of works by Roberts that \"captures what was an emerging spirit of national identity. \" Roberts painted the work at Corowa. The painting depicts a time of drought, with little grass and the soil kicked up as dust. The work itself is a reflection on the pioneering days of the pastoral industry, which were coming to an end by the 1890s. The painting is now part of the collection of the Art Gallery of South Australia. It was included in Quintessence Editions Ltd. 's 2007 book 1001 Paintings You Must See Before You Die."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Hat_Makes_the_Man","descr":"The Hat Makes the Man (1920) is a collage by the German dadaist\/surrealist Max Ernst. It is composed of cut out images of hats from catalogues linked by gouache and pencil outlines to create abstract anthropomorphic figures. There are inscriptions in ink that read \"seed-covered stacked-up man seedless waterformer ('edelformer') well fitting nervous system also tightly fitting nerves! (the hat makes the man) (style is the tailor). \" The idea for this work began as a sculpture made from wooden hat molds. Ernst was an important figure in the dada movement, which often criticized the tastes of mainstream culture and depicted modern man as a conformist automaton."},{"label":"DBpedia:At_Eternity's_Gate","descr":"Sorrowing Old Man ('At Eternity's Gate') is an oil painting by Vincent van Gogh that he made in 1890 in Saint-R\u00e9my de Provence based on an early lithograph. The painting was completed in early May at a time when he was convalescing from a severe relapse in his health and some two months before his death, generally accepted as a suicide. In the 1970 catalogue raisonn\u00e9, it is given the title Worn Out: At Eternity's Gate. The lithograph was based on a pencil drawing Worn Out, one of a series of studies he made in 1882 of a pensioner and war veteran, Adrianus Jacobus Zuyderland, at a local almshouse in The Hague and itself a reworking of a drawing and watercolor he had made the previous year. The inspiration for Worn Out was Hubert von Herkomer's Sunday at the Chelsea Hospital, an immensely popular print depicting an old war veteran slumped dead that went on to become an acclaimed painting at the Royal Academy, The Last Muster, that van Gogh had seen in 1875 when in England. Van Gogh wrote of his drawing:\"Today and yesterday I drew two figures of an old man with his elbows on his knees and his head in his hands. I did it of Schuitemaker once and always kept the drawing, because I wanted to do it better another time. Perhaps I\u2019ll also do a lithograph of it. What a fine sight an old working man makes, in his patched bombazine suit with his bald head. \" Van Gogh's first attempt at the lithograph followed just two days later. He wrote: \"It seems to me that a painter has a duty to try to put an idea into his work. I was trying to say this in this print \u2014 but I can\u2019t say it as beautifully, as strikingly as reality, of which this is only a dim reflection seen in a dark mirror \u2014 that it seems to me that one of the strongest pieces of evidence for the existence of 'something on high' in which Millet believed, namely in the existence of a God and an eternity, is the unutterably moving quality that there can be in the expression of an old man like that, without his being aware of it perhaps, as he sits so quietly in the corner of his hearth. At the same time something precious, something noble, that can\u2019t be meant for the worms. ... This is far from all theology \u2014 simply the fact that the poorest woodcutter, heath farmer or miner can have moments of emotion and mood that give him a sense of an eternal home that he is close to. \" Later, in a rare expression of his own religious feelings, he wrote expressly about this lithograph and two other drawings also posed by Zuyderland, of an old man reading a Bible and saying grace respectively:\"My intention with these two and with the first old man is one and the same, namely to express the special mood of Christmas and New Year. ... Leaving aside whether or not one agrees with the form, it\u2019s something one respects if it\u2019s sincere, and for my part I can fully share in it and even feel a need for it, at least in the sense that, just as much as an old man of that kind, I have a feeling of belief in something on high even if I don\u2019t know exactly who or what will be there. \" Writing about At Eternity's Gate in 1998, the American theologian Kathleen Powers Erickson remarked: \"Belief in a \"life beyond the grave\" is central to one of van Gogh's first accomplished lithographs, At Eternity's Gate ... Executed at The Hague in 1882, it depicts an old man seated by a fire, his head buried in his hands. Near the end of his life van Gogh recreated this image in oil, while recuperating in the asylum at St. R\u00e9my. Bent over with his fists clenched against a face hidden in utter frustration, the subjects appears engulfed in grief. Certainly, the work would convey an image of total despair had it not been for the English title van Gogh gave it, At Eternity's Gate. It demonstrates that even in his deepest moments of sorrow and pain, van Gogh clung to a faith in God and eternity, which he tried to express in his work. ... \" Seven impressions of the lithograph are known, of which one is annotated At Eternity's Gate. The same theme is taken up again in two later 1883 studies of a seated woman."},{"label":"DBpedia:Green_Stripe","descr":"The Green Stripe (La Raie Verte) also known as The Green Line or Mme Matisse, is a portrait by Henri Matisse of his wife, Am\u00e9lie Noellie Matisse-Parayre. He painted it in 1905, just prior to such work being labeled as that of Les Fauves (the wild beasts), along with the works of Andr\u00e9 Derain and Maurice de Vlaminck. The painting hangs in Statens Museum for Kunst in Copenhagen, Denmark."},{"label":"DBpedia:Whistlejacket","descr":"Whistlejacket is an oil-on-canvas painting from about 1762 by British artist George Stubbs showing the Marquess of Rockingham's racehorse, rearing up against a blank background. The huge canvas, lack of other features, and Stubbs' attention to the minute details of the horse's appearance give the portrait a powerful physical presence. It has been described in The Independent as \"a paradigm of the flawless beauty of an Arabian thoroughbred\". Stubbs' knowledge of equine physiology was unsurpassed by any painter; he had studied anatomy at York and, from 1756, he spent 18 months in Lincolnshire where he carried out dissections and experiments on dead horses to better understand the animal's physiology, suspending the cadavers with block and tackle to sketch them in different positions. The careful notes and drawings he made during his studies were published in 1766 as The Anatomy of the Horse. Even before the publication of his book, Stubbs' dedication to his subject reaped him rewards: his drawings were recognized as more accurate than the work of other equine artists and commissions from aristocratic patrons quickly followed. Charles Watson-Wentworth, 2nd Marquess of Rockingham, a Whig politician who would later serve two terms as British Prime Minister, commissioned Stubbs to produce a series of portraits of his horses, one of which was Whistlejacket. A chestnut stallion, with lighter mane and tail, Whistlejacket was foaled in 1749 at the stud of Sir William Middleton, 3rd Baronet at Belsay Castle in Northumberland, and named after a contemporary cold remedy containing gin and treacle. His sire was Mogul and grandsire was the Godolphin Arabian; through his dam, he was also descended from the Byerly Turk, and various other Arabians and Turks. He raced from 1752, winning many races in the North. He lost to Jason in the King's Plate at Newmarket in 1755, but won the following year, and was also narrowly beaten by Spectator for the Jockey Club Plate at Newmarket in 1756, and was sold soon after to the Marquess of Rockingham. He famously won a four-mile race at York in August 1759 against a strong field, beating Brutus by a length, and then retired to stud. He was beaten only four times in his racing career, but was notoriously temperamental and difficult to manage. Stubbs depicts him rising to a levade and pays intimate attention to the features of Whistlejacket's body. Minute blemishes, veins and the muscles flexing just below the surface of the skin are all visible and reproduced with almost photographic accuracy. Despite the isolation of the subject from natural surroundings Stubbs manages to create a living animal. Rockingham paid 60 guineas for the portrait. Contemporary opinion was that the painting was unfinished; it was believed that Rockingham had intended to create an equestrian portrait of George III, with Stubbs painting the horse and two other notable portrait and landscape painters filling in the king and the landscape respectively. Various reasons are given for the painting remaining \"unfinished\". In one account, it was intended as a piece to accompany a similarly-sized equestrian portrait of George II by David Morier, but Rockingham changed his mind. According to Horace Walpole, it was intended as a gift for the King, but Rockingham supposedly had not bothered to progress with the painting after falling out of favour, and ordered it hung at Wentworth Woodhouse uncompleted instead. Another reason popularly cited for it being \"unfinished\" is that Rockingham was so impressed by Whistlejacket's furious reaction when confronted by Stubbs working on the painting in his stable, that he ordered it hung without further decoration. There is little evidence for this view: Stubbs produced other paintings of horses against blank backgrounds for Rockingham, nothing in the painting indicates that it is not complete, and the detail of the shadows cast by Whistlejacket's rear legs on the ground suggest that this is how Stubbs intended the picture to be seen; the absence of background details intensifies the sense of power that the horse projects as it rears and twists its head. In 1762, Stubbs painted a second portrait of Whistlejacket, with two other stallions and a groom, Simon Cobb. The Rockingham family retained the painting until 1997, when funding from the Heritage Lottery Fund allowed the National Gallery, London to acquire it for \u00a311 million."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Monk_by_the_Sea","descr":"The Monk by the Sea (German: Der M\u00f6nch am Meer) is an oil painting by the German Romantic artist Caspar David Friedrich. It was painted between 1808 and 1810 in Dresden and was first shown together with the painting The Abbey in the Oakwood (Abtei im Eichwald) in the Berlin Academy exhibition of 1810. On Friedrich's request The Monk by the Sea was hung above The Abbey in the Oakwood. After the exhibition both pictures were bought by king Frederick Wilhelm III for his collection. Today the paintings hang side by side in the Alte Nationalgalerie, Berlin. For its lack of concern with creating the illusion of depth\u2014which had been a traditional aspect of landscape painting\u2014The Monk by the Sea was Friedrich's most radical composition. The broad expanses of sea and sky emphasize the meager figure of the monk, standing before the vastness of nature and the presence of God."},{"label":"DBpedia:Madonna_of_Humility_(Gentile_da_Fabriano)","descr":"The Madonna of Humility is an tempera-on-panel painting by the Italian late medieval artist Gentile da Fabriano, dating from around 1420-1423 and housed in the Museo nazionale di San Matteo, Pisa. The work, once in the local Pious House of Misericordy, was commissioned in unknown circumstances, although its size suggests that is was destined to private devotion. It was perhaps ordered by cardinal Alemanno Adimari, archbishop of Pisa, who had his sepulchre in the Roman church of Santa Maria Nova decorated by Gentile (a lost work mentioned by late Renaissance art biographer Giorgio Vasari)."},{"label":"DBpedia:Le_pigeon_aux_petits_pois","descr":"Le pigeon aux petit pois (The Pigeon with Green Peas) is a 1911 painting by Pablo Picasso. It was one of five paintings stolen from the Mus\u00e9e d'Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris on 20 May 2010, which together are worth about \u20ac100 million ($123 million). The thief and his sponsor were found the following year, and the latter has declared that he was seized by panic after a police raid and a phone call by the police. However the police doubt that assertion."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Elisabetta_Gonzaga","descr":"The Portrait of Elisabetta Gonzaga is a picture from around 1504, attributed to the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence."},{"label":"DBpedia:Deposition_of_Christ_(Fra_Angelico)","descr":"The Deposition from the Cross is a painting of the Deposition of Christ by the Italian Renaissance master Fra Angelico, executed between 1432 and 1434. It is now housed in the National Museum of San Marco, Florence. Giorgio Vasari defined it to have been \u201cpainted by a saint or an angel\u201d. Angelico intervened to complete this altarpiece when it had been already begun by Lorenzo Monaco for the Strozzi Chapel in the Florentine church of Santa Trinita. It portrays Christ supported by several people, with Mary Magdalene keeping his feet, as a symbol of human repention. A figure on the right, with a red hat, is showing the cross' nails and the horns crown, symbols of passion and sacrifice. Mary, wearing a dark dress, is showed in the traditional gesture of keeping hands joined."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Elephants","descr":"The Elephants is a 1948 painting by Salvador Dal\u00ed. The Elephants continues Dal\u00ed's theme of using spider-legged Elephants, which had previously appeared in \"The Temptation of Saint Anthony\" and \"Dream Caused by the Flight of a Bee Around a Pomegranate a Second Before Awakening\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:Crucifixion_(Mantegna)","descr":"The Crucifixion is a panel in the central part of the predella (see image below) of a large altar piece painted by Andrea Mantegna between 1457 and 1459 for the high altar of San Zeno, Verona. It was commissioned by Gregorio Correr, the abbot of that monastery."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Snail","descr":"The Snail (L'escargot) is a collage by Henri Matisse, The work was created from summer 1952 to early 1953. It is pigmented with gouache on paper, cut and pasted onto a base layer of white paper measuring 9'4\u20444\" \u00d7 9' 5\" (287 \u00d7 288\u00a0cm). The piece is in the Tate Gallery collection in London. It consists of a number of colored shapes arranged in a spiral pattern, as suggested by the title. Matisse first drew the snail, then used the colored paper to interpret it. The composition pairs complementary colors: Matisse gave the work the alternative title La Composition Chromatique (chromatic composition). From the early-to-mid-1940s Matisse was in increasingly poor health, and was suffering from arthritis. Eventually by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of gouaches d\u00e9coup\u00e9es, paper cutouts. The Snail is a major example of this final body of works."},{"label":"DBpedia:Amor_Vincit_Omnia_(Caravaggio)","descr":"Amor Vincit Omnia (\"Love Conquers All\", known in English by a variety of names including Amor Victorious, Victorious Cupid, Love Triumphant, Love Victorious, or Earthly Love) is a painting by the Italian early realist \/ post-Mannerist artist Caravaggio. Amor Vincit Omnia shows Amor, the Roman Cupid, wearing dark eagle wings, half-sitting on or perhaps climbing down from what appears to be a table. Scattered around are the emblems of all human endeavours \u2013 violin and lute, armour, coronet, square and compasses, pen and manuscript, bay leaves, and flower, tangled and trampled under Cupid\u2019s foot. The painting illustrates the line from Virgil's Eclogues X.69, Omnia vincit amor et nos cedamus amori (\"Love conquers all; let us all yield to love!\"). A musical manuscript on the floor shows a large \"V\". It has therefore been suggested also that the picture is a coded reference to the attainments of Marchese Vincenzo Giustiniani: his Genoese family ruled Chios (until the island's capture by the Turks) in 1622, hence the coronet; the cultivated Marchese also wrote about music and painting (pen, manuscript and musical instruments), was constructing an imposing new palazzo (geometrical instruments), studied astronomy (astral sphere), and was praised for his military prowess (armour). The symbology thus holds the possible reading: Vincenzo Conquers All. Giustiniani is said to have prized it above all other works in his collection. The subject was a common one for the age. Caravaggio\u2019s treatment is remarkable for the realism of his Cupid \u2013 where other depictions, such as a contemporary Sleeping Cupid by Battistello Caracciolo, show an idealised, almost generic, beautiful boy, Caravaggio\u2019s Cupid is highly individual, charming but not at all beautiful, all crooked teeth and crooked grin: one feels that one would recognise him in the street. The shock of the Caravaggio, quite apart from the dramatic chiaroscuro lighting and the photographic clarity, is the mingling of the allegorical and the real, this sense it gives of a child who is having a thoroughly good time dressing up in stage-prop wings with a bunch of arrows and having his picture painted. Nevertheless, despite the clear indications of Caravaggio\u2019s practice of painting direct from a live model, there is an undeniable resemblance to the pose of Michelangelo's Victory now in the Palazzo Vecchio, Florence, and it is likely the artist had this in mind. The painter Orazio Gentileschi lent Caravaggio the wings as props to be used in the painting, and this allows fairly precise dating of 1602-03. It was an immediate success in the circles of Rome\u2019s intellectual and cultural elite. A poet immediately wrote three madrigals about it, and another wrote a Latin epigram in which it was first coupled with the Virgilian phrase Omnia Vincit Amor, although this did not become its title until the critic Giovanni Pietro Bellori wrote his life of Caravaggio in 1672. Inevitably, much scholarly and non-scholarly ink has been spilled over the alleged eroticism of the painting. Yet the homoerotic content was perhaps not so apparent to Giustiniani\u2019s generation as it has become today. Naked boys could be seen on any riverbank or seashore, and the eroticisation of children is very much a cultural artefact of the present-day rather than Caravaggio's. Certainly neither Giustiniani, who was not a homosexual, nor his visitors, appear to have been concerned by the question of modesty \u2013 or to have even raised it \u2013 and the story that the Marchese kept Amor hidden behind a curtain relates to his reported wish that it should be kept as a final pi\u00e8ce de r\u00e9sistance for visitors, to be seen only when the rest of the collection had been viewed \u2013 in other words, the curtain was to reveal the painting, not to hide it. (According to the historian Joachim von Sandrart, who catalogued the Giustiniani collection in the 1630s, the curtain was only installed at his urging at that time). The challenge is to see the Amor Vincit through 17th century eyes. In 1602, shortly after Amor Vincit was completed, Cardinal Benedetto Giustiniani, Vincenzo\u2019s brother and collaborator in the creation of the Giustiniani collection of contemporary art, commissioned a painting from the noted artist Giovanni Baglione. Baglione\u2019s Divine and Profane Love showed Divine Love separating a juvenile Cupid on the ground in the lower right corner (profane love) from a Lucifer in the left corner. Its style was thoroughly derivative of Caravaggio (who had recently emerged as a rival for Church commissions) and a clear challenge to the recent Amor, and the younger painter bitterly protested at what he saw as the plagiarism. Taunted by one of Caravaggio\u2019s friends, Baglione responded with a second version, in which the devil was given Caravaggio\u2019s face. Thus began a long and vicious quarrel which was to have unforseeable ramifications for Caravaggio decades after his death when the unforgiving Baglione became his first biographer. Sandrart described Amor as \"A life size Cupid after a boy of about twelve... [who who] has large brown eagle's wings, drawn so correctly and with such strong colouring, clarity and relief that it all comes to life.\". Richard Symonds, an English visitor to Rome about 1649\/51, recorded the Cupid as being \"ye body and face of his (Caravaggio's) owne boy or servant thait (sic) laid with him\" - bearing in mind that \"laid with\" in 17th century English meant simply \"lived with\". The Italian art historian Giani Pappi has put forward the theory that this Cecco may be identical with Cecco del Caravaggio ('Caravaggio\u2019s Cecco'), a notable Italian follower of Caravaggio who emerged in the decade after the master\u2019s death. While this remains controversial, there is more widespread support for Pappi's further proposal that Cecco del Caravaggio should be identified as an artist known as Francesco Boneri. Cecco Boneri, if this is his name, appears in many of Caravaggio's paintings, as the juvenile angel supporting Christ in The Conversion of Saint Paul, (1600\u20131601) possibly as the angel offering a martyr's palm to the saint in The Martyrdom of Saint Matthew (1599\u20131600) (although seen only as the top of a curly head of hair), as the young Isaac about to have his throat cut in The Sacrifice of Isaac (1603), as an adolescent David in David with the Head of Goliath (1605-1606 - the head is Caravaggio's), and as the John the Baptist now in the Capitoline gallery in Rome."},{"label":"DBpedia:Vilabertran_(Dal%C3%AD)","descr":"Vilabertran (1913) is a painting by the Spanish Surrealist artist Salvador Dal\u00ed. This is among Dal\u00ed's earliest works, having been painted when he was about nine years old. It is a landscape painting from Vilabertran as Dal\u00ed often drew in his early period."},{"label":"DBpedia:A_Family_(painting)","descr":"\"A Family\" is an oil on canvas by Louis le Brocquy. Depicting a stark human condition in the aftermarth of World War II, S\u00edghle Bhreathnach-Lynch, Curator of Irish Art at the National Gallery of Ireland notes: 'The mother, lying on a table, leaning on one arm, stares out with quiet dignity while a menacing looking cat peers out from beneath the draw sheet. In the background the father sits, head bowed, in a pose suggesting total dejection. He appears to be oblivious to the small child holding a bunch of flowers; a symbol of hope. The three somberly painted figures inhabit a grey concrete bunker, lit by a bare bulb. The theme of this disturbingly bleak work is the nature of individual isolation and the breakdown of societal norms. ' \"A Family\" sparked controversy when a group of art patrons offered to present the painting to the Dublin Municipal Gallery in 1952. The gift was rejected by the Art Advisory Committee on the grounds of incompetence. Ineffectual protests were led by fellow artists within a small dynamic group supporting contemporary art. The event mobilised modern art haters and open hostility was aired in letters sent to the press. Viewed as an 'unwholesome and satanic distortion of natural beauty', the aversion was summed up in an opinion published by the Dublin Evening Mail: 'There is a place for monstrosities in the College of Surgeons - there are plenty there - and it would give me much pleasure to find a place for things like \"The Family\" [sic sic] ... It is not given to man to see into the future, but I am quite certain that in another 100 years the works of Turner, Constable, and a Galaxy of true artists, whose work is still with us, will be cherished and admired, while things like \"The Family\" [sic sic] will have returned to the oblivion from which they never should have emerged. As notes Dr. S\u00edghle Bhreathnach-Lynch, \u2018The artist's image of stark reality in the shape of the terrifying uncertainty of the post-War era and the resultant isolation of the family unit shocked rather than comforted. One letter writer to The Irish Times stated unequivocally that the picture in question is as remote from beauty as the utmost stretch of mortal imagination can conceive. The figures are bestial, horribly misshapen with heads and faces of idiots. If ordinary people met such figures in the streets they would flee from them in terror. The critic Tony Gray saw no tenderness in the forms portrayed. Rather he felt that they were \"depressing and frightening\" and the sombre palette merely \"enhanced the despair of his theme. \" The Evening Herald headlined its review \"What is it all about\" and castigated the le Brocquy exhibition for representing what it called \"the left in art\" (an oblique reference to modernism). The artist was accused of having gone the way of everything sensational, shallow and ephemeral. The 'Man About Town' column in the Evening Mail believed that the whole composition was \"bewildering and repulsive\" (the length of the woman's neck seemed to be especially abhorrent!). A rhetorical question implying a negative reply was posed, \"What is the aesthetic value of these distortions\"? An editorial in the same newspaper broadened the enquiry to a consideration of the genuine value of modern art in general. John Ryan, however, will write in the Dublin Evening Mail: 'Louis le Brocquy discovered his peculiarly individual mode of expression early in his career and courageously employed it even when doing so meant that he had to discard a style which promised a fashionable and lucrative future as a portrait painter in the traditional manner. That pedestrian opinion has not forgiven him for this revolt against its standards was amply proved by the deplorable attack on the painter in the Evening Herald recently. Le Brocquy's stand and his subsequent development as an artist, however, won him the admiration and respect of intelligent opinion wherever his work has been shown. In great Britain he is accepted as one of the handful of really brilliant painters of this generation, while America in so far as she has had the opportunity to judge has reacted similarly. Despite the strictures of the Evening Herald it is satisfactory to note that the exhibition itself has been an outstanding success in every respect. ' First exhibited in London at Gimpel Fils in June 1951, the painting attracted considerable praise. John Berger observed in Art News and Review: 'Le Brocquy is completely free of contemporary tendency to cosmic megalomania. It has become pretentious to talk of an artist's humility, yet that is what distinguishes his work; his studies testify to his patience, and his final, large picture to his refusal to evade simple but difficult problems by relying on the grandiose clich\u00e9 ... The right-hand half of the very large Family group is, by itself, the finest bit of contemporary painting I have seen for a long time, and I am now convinced that le Brocquy is one of the really promising (in this case that infuriating word is not an excuse but an achievement) British [sic sic] painters of his generation. ' The picture later received critical acclaim. In June 1956 Louis le Brocquy represented Ireland at the Venice Biennale and \"A Family\" was awarded the Nestl\u00e9-endowed Premio Aquisitato. The painting was subsequently given historical recognition in the exhibition Cinquante Ans d'Art Moderne, held to be one of the most ambitious attempts to trace and categorise the development of painting and sculpture from C\u00e9zanne and Rodin to that date. A Family will return to Ireland fifty years later to be displayed in the National Gallery of Ireland. S\u00edghle Bhreathnach-Lynch Curator of Irish Art at the National Gallery of Ireland will observe on this occasion: 'A Family is rightly recognized as a seminal painting in the history of 20th-century Irish art. It is not only an important transitional work in the artist's oeuvre but one anticipating modernism as an everyday style in Irish art. All of this is implicitly acknowledged in its being on display to the public. To date, the exception to the policy of only displaying work by dead artists in the Gallery is the continuous acquisition of portraits by contemporary artists for the National Portrait Collection. Le Brocquy is the only living artist to have a work on show as part of the permanent collection. As Medb Ruane has pointed out, the prophet has finally been honoured in his own land. \u2019"},{"label":"DBpedia:Last_Supper_(Ghirlandaio)","descr":"The Last Supper (1480) is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance artist Domenico Ghirlandaio. It depicts Jesus and the Apostles during the Last Supper, with Judas sitting separately on the near side of the table, as is common in depictions of the Last Supper in Christian art. Ghirlandaio was already famous and was about to travel to Rome to paint the Sistine Chapel with other Florentine painters when he received the commission for this fresco. During the restoration of the fresco later, a preliminary sketch of it was discovered on the left wall of the refectory in Cenacolo di Ognissanti. It is likely that Leonardo da Vinci was already familiar with Ghirlandaio's treatment of the Last Supper, as well as that of Castagno, and painted his own Last Supper in a more dramatic form to contrast with the stillness of these works, so that more emotion would be displayed."},{"label":"DBpedia:Adoration_of_the_Magi_(Correggio)","descr":"The Adoration of the Magi is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance painter Correggio, executed around 1515-1518. It is housed in the Pinacoteca di Brera of Milan, Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Crucifixion_of_St_Julia","descr":"The Crucifixion of St Julia is an early triptych by the Dutch painter Hieronymus Bosch. Like many of Bosch paintings, the date of this work is unknown. The painting is oil on panel and measures 104 \u00d7 119 cm. It currently resides at the Palazzo Ducale in Venice, Italy. It depicts the crucifixion of the martyr Saint Julia of Corsica. The left wing is known as St. Anthony in Meditation and the right Two Slave-Dealers."},{"label":"DBpedia:Landscape_with_Charon_Crossing_the_Styx","descr":"Landscape with Charon Crossing the Styx is a painting by the Flemish Northern Renaissance artist Joachim Patinir. Dating to c. 1515-1524, it is currently housed in the Museo del Prado of Madrid, Spain. Landscape with Charon Crossing Styx fits into common Northern Renaissance and early Mannerist trends of art. The 16th century witnessed a new era for painting in Germany and the Netherlands that combined influences from local traditions and foreign influences. Many artists, including Patinir, traveled to Italy to study and these travels to the south provided new ideas, particular concerning representations of the natural world. Patinir's religious subjects, therefore, incorporate precise observation and naturalism with fantastic landscapes inspired by the northern traditions of Bosch."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Goose_Girl_(painting)","descr":"The Goose Girl is an 1891 painting by Adolphe William Bouguereau, a French academic painter. The Goose Girl is one of many examples that Bouguereau specialized in paintings of beautiful women, and innocent, barefoot, young peasant girls. It is part of the permanent collection of the Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art at Cornell University."},{"label":"DBpedia:Saint_Roch_Interceding_with_the_Virgin_for_the_Plague-Stricken","descr":"Saint Roch Interceding with the Virgin for the Plague-Stricken is an early religious painting by the French artist Jacques-Louis David. He painted it in 1780 during his stay at the Villa Medici in Rome after winning first prize for painting in the Prix de Rome and exhibited it at the 1781 Paris Salon on his return to France. Its influences include Caravaggio, Poussin, Guercino and Lebrun. It shows Saint Roch interceding to the Virgin Mary and Christ Child for the plague sufferers shown around him."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Barque_of_Dante","descr":"The Barque of Dante, sometimes known as Dante and Virgil in Hell, is the first major painting by the French artist Eug\u00e8ne Delacroix, and is one of the works signalling a shift in the character of narrative painting from Neo-Classicism towards the Romantic movement. It was completed in time for the opening of the Salon of 1822 and currently hangs in the Mus\u00e9e du Louvre, Paris. The painting is loosely based on fictional events taken from canto eight of Dante\u2019s Inferno. A leaden, smoky mist and the blazing City of the Dead form the backdrop against which the poet Dante endures a fearful crossing of the River Styx. He is steadied by the learned poet of antiquity Virgil as they plough through waters heaving with tormented souls. The arrangement of figures is for the most part compliant with the tenets of the cool, reflective Neo-Classicism that had dominated French painting for nearly four decades. There is a group of central upright figures, and a rational arrangement of subsidiary figures, all in horizontal planes, and observing studied poses."},{"label":"DBpedia:View_of_Paris_from_Vincent's_Room_in_the_Rue_Lepic","descr":"View of Paris from Vincent's Room in the Rue Lepic (Dutch: Gezicht op de daken van Parijs) is a painting by Dutch post-impressionist artist Vincent van Gogh."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_great_day_of_Girona","descr":"The Great Day of Girona, originally and in Catalan El gran dia de Girona, is a large oil painting (4.96 x 10.82 m) by Ramon Mart\u00ed Alsina. It is the largest easel painting in the history of Catalan art. The creation process lasted more than 10 years and was about to bring the artist to his ruin on several occasions. It is now part of the collection of the Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya]] and is exhibited on deposit at the Girona premises of the Catalan Government, in the church of the former Hospital of Santa Caterina. Due to the spectacular size of the work, scholars suggest that it may have been an effort to compete with Mari\u00e0 Fortuny's Battle of Tetuan, a work commissioned by the council of Barcelona regarding the War of Africa. In 1938, during the Spanish Civil War, the painting was damaged during a bombardment whilst on exhibition in the Palau de les Belles Arts (Palace of the Fine Arts). To protect it from further damage, the work was rolled up and placed in one of the storage areas in the National Museum of Art (MNAC). It was some 70 years after its deposit that the painting was finally restored; between the years of 2009 and 2010."},{"label":"DBpedia:Last_Supper_(del_Castagno)","descr":"The Last Supper (1445-1450) is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance artist Andrea del Castagno, located in the church of Sant'Apollonia in Florence. It depicts Jesus and the Apostles during the Last Supper, with Judas sitting separately on the near side of the table, as is common in depictions of the Last Supper in Christian art."},{"label":"DBpedia:Lady_Writing_a_Letter_with_her_Maid","descr":"Lady Writing a Letter with her Maid is a painting by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer, completed between 1670\u20131671 and held in the National Gallery of Ireland. The work shows a middle-class woman attended by a maid who is presumably acting as messenger and go-between for the lady and her lover. The work is seen as a bridge between the quiet restraint and self-containment of Vermeer's work of the 1660s and his relatively cooler work of the 1670s. Lady Writing a Letter with her Maid is the first of the artist's experiments with centrifugal composition; where the focus is not only form the center of the canvas. In addition, it is his third work in which the drama and dynamic is not centered on a single figure. The maid is shown standing in the mid-ground, behind her lady, with her hands crossed and waiting for the letter to be completed. The positions of their bodies indicates that the two women are disconnected. The folded arms of the maid seem outwardly as an attempt to display a sense of self-containment, however she is detached from her lady both emotionally and psychologically. The maid's gaze towards the half-visible window indicates an inner restlessness and boredom, as she waits impatiently for the messenger to carry her lady's letter away. Some art historians dispute the absoluteness of this view; according to Pascal Bonafoux, while complicity is not \"indicated by a look or a smile\" from either woman, the mere fact of her presence during such an intimate act as the composition of a love letter indicates at least a degree of intimacy between the two. The painting visits many of Vermeer's usual painterly motifs; in particular his obsession with the inside\/outside axis of interior spaces, and through his description of the tiled floor as well as the verticals of the dresses, window frame and back wall painting, his interest in geometry and abstract form. Vermeer had experimented with this painterly device earlier in his career, notably in his View of Delft, The Lacemaker and The Art of Painting. Lady Writing was stolen on 27 April 1974, along with a Goya, two Gainsboroughs and three Rubens from the Russborough House home of Sir Alfred Beit by armed members of the IRA. Led by the British heiress Dr. Rose Dugdale, the thieves used screwdrivers to cut the paintings from their frames. However, the Vermeer and other works were recovered eight days later at a cottage in County Cork. The work was again taken in 1986 by a gang led by the Dublin gangster Martin Cahill. Along with a number of other art-works, Cahill held the painting for a ransom of \u00a320 million. However, the money was not paid, and Cahill lacked contacts or knowledge to otherwise pass it on to international art thieves. According to an Radio Telef\u00eds \u00c9ireann report, Cahill's taste in art extended only to \"cheery scenes like the cheap print in his living room of swans on a river, but he believed the stolen masterpieces would bring him a fortune. \" The painting was eventually recovered during an August 1993 exchange at Antwerp airport which turned out to be a sting operation organised by the Irish police. It had already been donated in absentia to the National Gallery in Dublin."},{"label":"DBpedia:Polyptych_of_Perugia","descr":"The Polyptych of Perugia (also known as Polyptych of St. Anthony) is a complex of paintings by the Italian Renaissance master Piero della Francesca, finished around 1470. It is housed in the Galleria Nazionale dell'Umbria, Perugia, Italy. The work was executed for the new Franciscan convent of Sant'Antonio da Padova in Perugia, most likely in the years following his sojourn in Rome. It portrays the Virgin enthroned with the Child in the central part, flanked by several saints: Anthony of Padua and John the Baptist on the left, Francis and Elizabeth of Hungary in the right. In the cusp is the Annunciation. The upper part of the predella shows the saints Clare and Lucy, while in the lower part are miracles stories of the main Franciscan saints. The central part of the polyptych shows a still archaic formula, both in the composition of the frame and in the gold backgrounds: Piero della Francesca was in fact called to complete a work already begun by a local painter. The figures are impressively robust and full-bodied, the realism of iconography innovative and the perspective of the niche throne on which Mary sits is meticulously worked out Of lesser quality are the predella panel, which are in fact attributed to assistants. More innovative and typical of the artist's style is the Annunciation, set in a bright cloister, whose illusionist view is considered amongst the greatest perspective renderings of Renaissance art."},{"label":"DBpedia:La_Mari%C3%A9e","descr":"La Mari\u00e9e (French for \"The Bride\") is a painting in oil on canvas, 68\u00d753\u00a0cm, created in 1950 by Russian-French artist Marc Chagall. It is presently held in a private collection in Japan."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Massacre_at_Chios","descr":"The Massacre at Chios (French: Sc\u00e8ne des massacres de Scio) is the second major oil painting by the French artist Eug\u00e8ne Delacroix. The work is more than four meters tall, and shows some of the horror of the wartime destruction visited on the Island of Chios. A frieze-like display of suffering characters, military might, ornate and colourful costumes, terror, disease and death is shown in front of a scene of widespread desolation. Unusually for a painting of civil ruin during this period, The Massacre at Chios has no heroic figure to counterbalance the crushed victims, and there is little to suggest hope among the ruin and despair. The vigour with which the aggressor is painted, contrasted with the dismal rendition of the victims has drawn comment since the work was first hung, and some critics have charged that Delacroix might have tried to show some sympathy with the brutal occupiers. The painting was completed and displayed at the Salon of 1824 and presently hangs at the Mus\u00e9e du Louvre in Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Martyrdom_of_Saint_Matthew_(Caravaggio)","descr":"The Martyrdom of Saint Matthew (1599\u20131600) is a painting by the Italian master Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio. It is located in the Contarelli Chapel of the church of the French congregation San Luigi dei Francesi in Rome, where it hangs opposite The Calling of Saint Matthew and beside the altarpiece The Inspiration of Saint Matthew, both by Caravaggio. It was the first of the three to be installed in the chapel, in July 1600. The painting shows the martyrdom of Saint Matthew the Evangelist, author of the Gospel of Matthew. According to tradition, the saint was killed on the orders of the king of Ethiopia while celebrating Mass at the altar. The king lusted after his own niece, and had been rebuked by Matthew, for the girl was a nun, and therefore the bride of Christ. Cardinal Contarelli, who had died several decades earlier, had laid down very explicitly what was to be shown: the saint being murdered by a soldier sent by the wicked king, some suitable architecture, and crowds of onlookers showing appropriate emotion. (See the article on the Contarelli Chapel). The commission (which, strictly speaking, was from his patron, Cardinal Francesco Maria Del Monte, rather than from the church itself), caused Caravaggio considerable difficulty, as he had never painted so large a canvas, nor one with so many figures. X-rays reveal two separate attempts at the composition before the one we see today, with a general movement towards simplification through reduction in the number of figures, and reduction \u2013 ultimately elimination \u2013 of the architectural element. The first version revealed by the x-rays is in the Mannerist style of the most admired artist in Rome at the time, Giuseppe Cesari, with a crowd of small figures amidst massive architecture. It must have seemed static and distanced. The second version turned to Raphael for a model, adding a crowd of onlookers displaying fear and pity, including a woman who presumably represented the nun. This was in line with the crowded scene requested by Cardinal Contarelli and with the tenets of Mannerism, which demanded bodies and buildings defined by perspective and drawing, but Caravaggio had already developed a personal style in which bodies were defined by light and darkness and in which backgrounds were eliminated. At this point Caravaggio left off the Martydom and turned his attention to the companion piece, the Calling. This drew on his own earlier genre-pieces, Cardsharps and The Fortune Teller, but writ large. Apparently re-inspired, or perhaps with renewed self-confidence, Caravaggio turned back to the Martydom, but this time working in his own idiom. The third version dropped the architecture, reduced the number of actors, and moved the action closer to the viewer; more than this, it introduced the dramatic chiaroscuro which picks out the most important elements of the subject, in much the same way a spotlight picks out the action on a stage, but centuries before spotlights were imagined, and chose to represent the moment of greatest drama, as the murderer is about to plunge his sword into the fallen saint. This is the version we see today, the action caught at the moment of highest drama, the bystanders reduced to supporting roles by the sharply selective light, the whole giving the impression of a moment seen as if in a lightning flash. This painting marks the moment when the Mannerist orthodoxy of the late 16th century \u2013 rational, intellectual, perhaps a little artificial \u2013 gives way to the Baroque. It caused a sensation. Federico Zuccari, one of the most eminent painters in Rome and a champion of Mannerism, came to see, and sniffed that it was nothing. But the younger artists were totally won over, and Caravaggio became suddenly the most famous artist in Rome. It takes concentration to understand that the confused melee is a victory of sainthood. Saint Matthew appears to recoil as he falls before the naked fury of his executioner, burning in the glare of light, who readies his sword to strike. Around the saint are persons showing varied emotions, as required by Contarelli: terror, awe, and consternation, while an angel holds out the palm of martyrdom. Confusion about the image can be alleviated by understanding that Matthew is not quailing in fear at the executioner's strike, instead he reaches for the angel's gift. The executioner's grasp and the angel's reach are two parallel paths. Only Matthew is privy to the angelic visitation. Viewed as such, this is a painting not about a moment of general terror, but the death of a saint as the personal handshake of the divine. Italian Baroque painting and sculpture of the time commonly depicted martyrdoms not as moments of fear, but as moments of joy or ecstasy, as in for example, Bernini's Santa Bibiana. One factor worth noting is that Caravaggio, unlike his Mannerist predecessors, has actually made a simple fact of early modern church architecture work in his favour: large cathedrals like Saint Peter's might be well lit, but small chapels like the Contarelli were not. They were, and are, dark and narrow. As Caravaggio's biographer Peter Robb puts it: \"Anyone coming down the nave of San Luigi (the church which contains the chapel) would've seen the pale killer nudes looming out of the dark from a distance, in a space that seemed to open out of the wall into the church's real transept. \" That said, the painting contains many references from Michelangelo, Raphael and others, which critic John Gash ascribes not so much to a need to find appropriate poses as to a desire for \"a quality of monumental grandeur akin to that of the High Renaissance. \" The figures of the saint and the horror-struck boy on the left, for example, are borrowed \"to the extent of almost 'quoting' directly\" from Titian's altarpiece of The Martyrdom of St Peter the Martyr in Venice. The figure in the background, about left-centre and behind the assassin, is a self-portrait by Caravaggio."},{"label":"DBpedia:Self-portrait_with_Dr_Arrieta","descr":"Self-portrait with Dr Arrieta is the name given to a painting by Spanish artist Francisco Goya. The work is an oil painting on canvas which was created in 1820. It is held in Minneapolis Institute of Arts, Minnesota."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_C%C3%B4te_des_B%C5%93ufs_at_L%E2%80%99Hermitage","descr":"The C\u00f4te des B\u0153ufs at L\u2019Hermitage is an oil-on-canvas landscape painting by the French Impressionist artist Camille Pissarro. It was painted in 1877, and displayed the same year at an exhibition now generally referred to as the third Impressionist exhibition. The picture is large by Pissarro\u2019s measure, and he described the effort of painting it as the \u2018work of a benedictine\u2019. Pissarro was proud of the painting, and it remained in his family\u2019s possession until 1913. It presently hangs in the National Gallery, London."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Sir_Richard_Southwell","descr":"The Portrait of Sir Richard Southwell is a painting by the German Renaissance master Hans Holbein the Younger, executed around 1536-1537. It is housed in the Uffizi, Florence. The painting was required by Grand Duke Cosimo II de' Medici in 1620 to Thomas Howard, Duke of Arundel, to fill a gap in the family collections. It arrived in Florence in April 1621, when Cosimo had already died. It belongs to Holbein's mature career, and a preparatory drawing of the painting (with the inscription \"Southwell Knight\") exists in the Royal Collections of the Windsor Castle. The Louvre houses a copy brought to Paris during the Napoleonic invasions of Europe."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Lament_for_Icarus","descr":"The Lament for Icarus is a painting by Herbert James Draper, showing dead Icarus, surrounded by lamenting nymphs. The wings of Icarus are based on the bird-of-paradise pattern. In 1898 the painting was bought from the Royal Academy exhibition through The Chantrey Bequest, a public fund for purchasing modern art bequeathed by Sir Francis Leggatt Chantry, R.A.. The Lament for Icarus was subsequently awarded the gold medal at the Exposition Universelle of 1900 in Paris. According to Dr. Justine Hopkins, Draper identifies Icarus \"with the other heroes of the Pre-Raphaelites and symbolists, who, like James Dean half a century later, manage to live fast, die young and leave a beautiful corpse\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:Young_Woman_in_a_Black_Dress","descr":"The Young Woman in a Black Dress is an oil painting by Titian, dating to around 1520 and now held at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna. It was later misattributed to Palma il Vecchio, then to Giovanni Cariani, until Roberto Longhi reattributed it as by Titian, which is now the critical consensus. It depicts a woman half-length, facing the viewer, with her torso slightly twisted to give a sense of movement. One hand holds her black dress over her white shift, with a generous cleavage. The woman's physical type recurs in several other works by the artist, such as Flora and Woman with a Mirror - she may have been Titian's mistress, or simply a recurring model."},{"label":"DBpedia:Women_in_the_Garden","descr":"Women in the Garden is an oil painting begun in 1866 by French artist Claude Monet when he was 26. It is a large work painted en plein air; the size of the canvas necessitated Monet painting its upper half with the canvas lowered into a trench he had dug, so that he could maintain a single point of view for the entire work. The setting is the garden of a property he was renting. His companion Camille posed for the figures. Monet finished the work indoors, and used magazine illustrations to render fashionable clothing. Monet at this time was early in his career, experimenting with method and subject matter. His earlier paintings were successful at Paris Salons, but Women in the Garden was rejected in 1867 on the grounds of subject and narrative weakness. The Salon was also troubled by Monet's heavy brushstrokes, a style which would, of course, become one of the hallmarks of Impressionism. A judge commented, \"Too many young people think of nothing but continuing in this abominable direction. It is high time to protect them and save art!\" The painting was purchased by fellow artist Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Bazille to help support Monet at a time when he had no money. Although the Mus\u00e9e d'Orsay, the painting's owner, comments that \"Monet has skilfully rendered the white of the dresses, anchoring them firmly in the structure of the composition\", Christoph Heinrich, author of a Monet biography, notes how posterity has found the painting lacking. In this view, the figures appear poorly integrated into the scene, with the woman at right \"gliding across the ground as if she had a trolley concealed beneath her dress\". The painting's treatment of light and shadow is lauded, however, and in this respect the work may have shown Monet where his artistic path lay."},{"label":"DBpedia:Fragment_of_a_Crucifixion","descr":"Fragment of a Crucifixion is a 1950 painting by Irish-born artist Francis Bacon (1909\u20131992) and one of his many works based on iconography of the Crucifixion of Jesus. Its two distressed figures are at the end of a bloody struggle, with one positioned at the point of kill. The dying animal's scream forms the centerpiece of the work. Although the painting's title contains religious connotations, Bacon was a devout atheist, and there is no hope divinity in the work. Instead, it is intended to represent what he saw as the hopelessness of the human condition. A muscular male dog stoops on a horizontal beam that forms part of a T-shaped structure intended to both signify Christ's cross and indicate a beam hanging over a door. An apparently female chimera is trapped within this frame, and is powerless in the course of being mutilated by the dog. Blood pours from the canine's mouth onto the head and body of his prey, who is rendered as owl-like but with human facial characteristics. Characteristic of Bacon's work, the painting draws its influence from a wide variety of sources, including the scream of the nurse in Sergei Eisenstein's 1925 silent film \"The Battleship Potemkin\", photographs of Adolf Eichmann, and many depictions of the biblical crucifixion and lowering from the Cross."},{"label":"DBpedia:Jews_Praying_in_the_Synagogue_on_Yom_Kippur","descr":"Jews Praying in the Synagogue on Yom Kippur or Jews pray, is a painting by Maurycy Gottlieb of 1878, depicting Ashkenazi Jews praying in the synagogue on Yom Kippur, the Jewish day of atonement. Traditional elements shown include tallitot, kippot, the Torah, and the segregation of men and women in the synagogue. The artist has painted himself (to the right of the seated rabbi, looking outwards) among the people of his hometown of Drohobych. From reproductions published as prints and in the press in Poland and Germany it become a well-known example of Jewish art."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Last_Sleep_of_Arthur_in_Avalon","descr":"The Last Sleep of Arthur in Avalon is a painting by Edward Burne-Jones, started in 1881. The massive painting measures 279\u00a0cm \u00d7 650\u00a0cm, and is widely considered to be Burne-Jones's magnum opus. The painting was originally commissioned from Burne-Jones by his patron George Howard, 9th Earl of Carlisle, to hang on a wall in the library of Naworth Castle. Howard shared Burne-Jones's affection for the Arthurian legend and left the choice of topic to the artist. Burne-Jones started working on it in 1881 and continued for 17 years. Within this period, he also designed the stage set for the play King Arthur by J. Comyns Carr that premiered in London in January 1895. The 1880s brought the deaths of Burne-Jones's close friends. As they died, the artist experienced mounting isolation and painful awareness of his own mortality. Immersed in his work, Burne-Jones identified himself with Arthur and even adopted Arthur's pose when he himself slept. By 1885, the association with Arthur reached the point where Burne-Jones had to ask Howard to cancel or revise his original commission, replacing the grand scene with a smaller painting focused on the departed king. Howard agreed to cancellation and never requested his downpayment back. Nevertheless, Burne-Jones returned to the original grand painting, and worked on it for the remaining thirteen years of his life. Arthur became increasingly autobiographical for the artist as he withdrew into himself; \"above all the picture is about silence. \" How is it you are in Avalon, where I have striven to be with all my might \u2014 and how did you get there and how does Arthur the King? ... \u2014Edward Burne-Jones, a letter to a friend in Avallon, France, 1886 At the floor there is a crown already recognized as the crown of Saint Stephen of Hungary. A popular opinion holds that Burne-Jones modelled Arthur's appearance after William Morris, the last survivor of a once-strong progressive art circle, and that Morris's physical decline was a major inspiration for the painting. However, Debra Mancoff argues that there is no record of Morris posing as Arthur and that the king's image was completed when Morris was in vigorous health. Morris died in 1896; Burne-Jones lived for two more years and died before the painting was complete. Just one day before his death Burne-Jones continued work on Arthur. Towards the end of his life he wrote, \"I need nothing but my hands and my brain to fashion myself a world to live in that nothing can disturb. In my own land I am king of it. \" His widow described Arthur as a \"task of love to which [the artist] put no limit of time or labor. \" Following the artist's death, the painting in its frame with Latin inscription passed to a neighbour of Burne-Jones's, whose descendants, John and Penryn Monck, sold the work at auction at Christie's on April 26, 1963 where it was bought by Luis A. Ferr\u00e9, a politician and founder of the Ponce Museum of Art who would later become Governor of Puerto Rico. Burne-Jones was out of fashion at this time so its export was allowed despite some objections. The Last Sleep of Arthur in Avalon is owned by the Ponce Museum of Art in Puerto Rico. However, it was shown for a short time at the Tate Britain in London while the Ponce museum underwent restoration in 2009-2010. The painting was on view at the Prado Museum in Madrid: The Sleeping Beauty. Victorian Painting from The Museo de Arte de Ponce (February 24, 2009 - May 31, 2009)."},{"label":"DBpedia:Joseph_the_Carpenter","descr":"Joseph the Carpenter is an oil painting by Georges de la Tour created circa 1645. The painting depicts a young Jesus with Saint Joseph, his earthly father. Joseph drills a piece of wood with an auger. The shape of the auger reflects the shape of the Cross and the geometry of the wood arrayed on the floor, set cross-wise to the seated child Christ, is a foreshadowing of the crucifixion. John Rupert Martin writes that Jesus' patience represents \"filial obedience and the acceptance of his destiny as martyr\". This painting, created around the year 1645 is one of several tenebrist paintings by de la Tour. Others include The Education of the Virgin, the Penitent Magdalene, and The Dream of St. Joseph. In all these works, a single, strong light source is a central element, surrounded by cast shadows. In both Joseph the Carpenter and the Education of the Virgin, the young Christ is represented, hand raised, as if in benediction, with the candlelight shining through the flesh as an allegorical reference to Christ as the \"Light of the World.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Boreas_(Waterhouse_painting)","descr":"Boreas is an oil painting in the Pre-Raphaelite style created in 1903 by John William Waterhouse."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Mocking_of_Christ_(Gr%C3%BCnewald)","descr":"The Mocking of Christ is an early oil on wood painting (1503\u20131505) by Matthias Gr\u00fcnewald. It is located today in the Alte Pinakothek, Munich."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Lady_of_Shalott_(painting)","descr":"The Lady of Shalott is an 1888 oil-on-canvas painting by the English Pre-Raphaelite painter John William Waterhouse. The work is a representation of a scene from Alfred, Lord Tennyson's 1832 poem of the same name, in which the poet describes the plight of a young woman (loosely based on Elaine of Astolat, who yearned with an unrequited love for the knight Sir Lancelot) isolated under an undisclosed curse in a tower near King Arthur's Camelot. Waterhouse painted three different versions of this character, in 1888, 1894 and 1916. According to legend, the Lady of Shalott was forbidden to look directly at reality or the outside world; instead she was doomed to view the world through a mirror, and weave what she saw into tapestry. Her despair was heightened when she saw loving couples entwined in the far distance, and she spent her days and nights aching for a return to normality. One day the Lady saw Sir Lancelot passing on his way in the reflection of the mirror, and dared to look out at Camelot, bringing about a curse. The lady escaped by boat during an autumn storm, inscribing 'The Lady of Shalott' on the prow. As she sailed towards Camelot and certain death, she sang a lament. Her frozen body was found shortly afterwards by the knights and ladies of Camelot, one of whom is Lancelot, who prayed to God to have mercy on her soul. The tapestry she wove during her imprisonment was found draped over the side of the boat. From part IV of Tennyson's poem: And down the river's dim expanse Like some bold seer in a trance, Seeing all his own mischance With glassy countenance Did she look to Camelot. And at the closing of the day She loosed the chain, and down she lay; The broad stream bore her far away, The Lady of Shalott. Tennyson's verse was popular with many of the Pre-Raphaelite poets and painters, and was illustrated by such artists as Dante Gabriel Rossetti, William Maw Egley, and William Holman Hunt. Throughout his career, Waterhouse was preoccupied with the poetry of both Tennyson and John Keats. Between 1886 and 1894 Waterhouse painted three episodes from the former's epic. Although the painting is typically Pre-Raphaelite in composition and tone, its central framing, as well as the linear echoes between the leaves of the overhanging trees and the hair and creases of the lady's dress and tapestry, betray formal and spatial elements borrowed from the earlier Neo-Classical style. It is typically Pre-Raphaelite in that it illustrates a vulnerable and doomed woman and is bathed in natural early-evening light. The lady is portrayed staring away from the crucifix, which sits beside three candles. During the late nineteenth century, candles were often used to symbolise life: In this image, two have blown out. The Lady of Shalott was donated to the public by Sir Henry Tate in 1894."},{"label":"DBpedia:O_Pobre_Rabequista","descr":"O Pobre Rabequista is an oil painting, 1855 (oil on canvas 170 X 122\u00a0cm), by Jos\u00e9 Rodrigues."},{"label":"DBpedia:A_Converted_British_Family_Sheltering_a_Christian_Missionary_from_the_Persecution_of_the_Druids","descr":"A Converted British Family Sheltering a Christian Missionary from the Persecution of the Druids is a painting by William Holman Hunt that was exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1850, and is now in the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford. It was a companion to John Everett Millais's Christ in the House of His Parents. Both artists sought to depict similar episodes from very early Christian history, portraying families helping an injured individual. Both stressed the primitivism of the scene."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Yevgeny_Mravinsky","descr":""},{"label":"DBpedia:Transfiguration_(Raphael)","descr":"The Transfiguration is the last painting by the Italian High Renaissance master Raphael. Commissioned by Cardinal Giulio de Medici, the later Pope Clement VII (1523-1534) and conceived as an altarpiece for the Narbonne Cathedral in France, Raphael worked on it until his death in 1520. The painting exemplifies Raphael's development as an artist and the culmination of his career. Unusually for a depiction of the Transfiguration of Jesus in Christian art, the subject is combined with an additional episode from the Gospels in the lower part of the painting. The Transfiguration stands as an allegory of the transformative nature of representation. It is now in the Pinacoteca Vaticana in Vatican City."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Burial_of_the_Sardine","descr":"The Burial of the Sardine is an oil-on-panel painting by Spanish artist Francisco Goya, usually dated to the 1810s. The title is posthumous, referring to the culminating event of a three-day carnival in Madrid ending on Ash Wednesday. Masked and disguised revellers are seen dancing their way to the banks of the Manzanares, where a ceremonial sardine will be buried. Goya does not illustrate the fish in the painting, nor the large doll made of straw, called a pelele, from which it hung; the centrepiece is the darkly grinning \"King of the Carnival\". The painting has been dated between 1793 and 1819, but most accounts place it toward the end of this range on account of the painting's style and its place within the shifting themes of Goya's art as he aged. The Burial appears to fit within a progression beginning with the artist's bright, youthful works\u2014in which he painted commissions of popular entertainments and colourful cartoon tapestries\u2014and his much later, psychologically darker Black Paintings. The painting is certainly a tribute to the common people, depicting an exuberant crowd carousing on the first day of Lent while other Spanish Catholics worship at church. Yet the celebration takes on a sinister aspect due to the many masked and blank faces (see the detail in \"Gallery\") surrounding the gaily dancing women in white; the grey, distorted trees and encroaching dark colours; and the eye-catching black banner that parades an unsettling mascot. Such festivals as the \"Burial of the Sardine\" originated with themes of mortality: masks were worn to ward off the spirits of criminals and those who had died violently. The word \"mortus\" (\"death\") is barely visible on the banner though in a preparatory ink sketch by Goya (in the gallery below) it features prominently over an indistinct shape which may be a representation of the sardine itself. The painting forms a loose thematic set with other paintings of religious ceremony that Goya produced around the same time, among which are A Procession of Flagellants (Procesi\u00f3n de disciplinantes) and Inquisition Scene (Auto de fe de la Inquisici\u00f3n). Goya scholar Fred Licht writes: [The Burial of the Sardine] is also one of the most astonishing virtuoso performances to come down to us from Goya's brush. Rarely did Goya again reach such decisiveness of touch. Every brushstroke is a calligraphic marvel at the same time that it describes with consummate precision the expression of faces and the emotional charge of each stance or gesture. We have arrived here at the perfect balancing point between the early tapestry cartoons and the later Black Paintings. All the riotous gaiety of the former appeals to the eye from the surface of the painting. But in the darkening of the colors, in the masklike ambiguity of the faces... and especially in the overwrought gestures and expressions, one begins to feel the obscurely disturbing undertones of mass hysteria underlying the fiesta."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Lacemaker_(Vermeer)","descr":"The Lacemaker is a painting by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer (1632\u20131675), completed between 1669\u20131670 and held in the Louvre, Paris. The work shows a young woman dressed in a yellow shawl, holding up a pair of bobbins in her left hand as she carefully places a pin in the pillow on which she is making her bobbin lace. At 24.5\u00a0cm x 21\u00a0cm (9.6 in x 8.3 in), the work is the smallest of Vermeer's paintings, but in many ways one of his most abstract and unusual. The girl is set against a blank wall, probably because the artist sought to eliminate any external distractions from the central image. As with his The Astronomer (1668) and The Geographer (1669), it is obvious that the artist undertook careful study before he executed the work; the art of lacemaking is portrayed closely and accurately. Vermeer probably used a camera obscura while composing the work: many optical effects typical of photography can be seen, in particular the blurring of the foreground. By rendering areas of the canvas as out-of-focus, Vermeer is able to suggest depth of field in a manner unusual of Dutch Baroque painting of the era. In The Lacemaker, the artist presents in an abstract manner the various elements which compose the girl's face and body and the pattern of the material on which she is working. The girl's hands, the curls of her hair and the T-cross which form her eyes and nose are all described in an abstract manner unusual for the era in which Vermeer worked. In addition, the red and white of the lace is shown as spilling from the sewing cushion with physical properties suggesting a near liquid form. The blurring of these threads contrasts sharply with the precision of the lace she is shown working on. Vermeer's painting is often compared to a 1662 canvas of the same name by the Dutch portrait and genre painter Caspar Netscher. However, Vermeer's work is very different in tone. In the earlier work, both the girl's shoes and the mussel shells near her feet have sexual connotations. In addition, the discarded shoes in Netscher's painting are unlikely to be the girl's own, hinting again at a sexual overtone. According to the art historian Lawrence Gowing, \"The achievement of Vermeer's maturity is complete. It is not open to extension: no universal style is discovered. We have never the sense of abundance that the characteristic jewels of his century gives us, the sense that the precious vein lies open, ready to be worked. There is only one 'Lacemaker': we cannot imagine another. It is a complete and single definition.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Ginevra_de'_Benci","descr":"Ginevra de\u2019 Benci (born c. \u20091458) was an aristocrat from 15th-century Florence, admired for her intelligence by Florentine contemporaries. She is the subject of a portrait painting by Leonardo da Vinci. The oil-on-wood portrait was acquired by the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. , in 1967, for US$5 million paid to the Princely House of Liechtenstein, a record price at the time, from the Ailsa Mellon Bruce Fund. It is the only painting by Leonardo on public view in the Americas. It is known that Leonardo painted a portrait of Ginevra de' Benci in 1474, possibly to commemorate her marriage that year to Luigi di Bernardo Niccolini at the age of 16. However, according to Giorgio Vasari\u2019s Lives of the Artists (second edition, 1568) Ginevra was not the daughter of Amerigo de\u2019 Benci but his wife. The painting\u2019s imagery and the text on the reverse of the panel support the identification of this picture. Directly behind the young lady in the portrait is a juniper tree. The reverse of the portrait is decorated with a juniper sprig encircled by a wreath of laurel and palm and is memorialized by the phrase (\"beauty adorns virtue\"). The Italian word for juniper is \"ginepro\", which suggests that the juniper motif was used here as a symbolic pun on Ginevra\u2019s name. However, this pun is not supported by any contemporary historical source and the juniper stood as a symbol of sorrow, pain and loss in the whole of the Middle Ages. Therefore the juniper was frequently used in portrait paintings of widows. According to Maike Vogt-Luerssen the depicted (on the right) is not Ginevra de\u2019 Benci but Fioretta Gorini, the widow of the murdered Giuliano de\u2019 Medici. The painting was made by Leonardo in 1479\/80. The Latin motto VIRTUTEM FORMA DECORAT, on the reverse of the portrait, also is understood symbolizing her intellectual and moral virtue, while the sprig of juniper (\"ginepro\"), encircled by laurel and palm, suggests Ginevra's name. The laurel and palm are in the personal emblem of Bernardo Bembo, Venetian ambassador to Florence, whose platonic relationship with Ginevra is revealed in poems dedicated to them. Infrared examination has revealed Bembo's motto \"Virtue and Honor\" beneath Ginevra's. So it is likely Bembo who ordered the emblematic painting on the verso of the portrait. Carla Glori - using a method scientifically and philologically verifiable in her book \u201cEnigma Leonardo:decifrazioni e scoperte\u201d decoded the motto VIRTUTEM FORMA DECORAT, revealing a Latin sentence, constructed by the very same alphabetical letters, whose meaning is unequivocally referable to the portrait and to Ginevra Benci. The portrait is one of the highlights of the National Gallery of Art, and is admired by many for its portrayal of Ginevra's temperament. Ginevra is beautiful but austere; she has no hint of a smile and her gaze, though forward, seems indifferent to the viewer. A strip from the bottom of the painting was removed in the past, presumably owing to damage, and Ginevra's arms and hands were lost. Using the golden section, Susan Dorothea White has drawn an interpretation of how her arms and hands may have been positioned in the original. According to Giorgio Vasari, Ginevra de\u2019 Benci was also included in the fresco by Domenico Ghirlandaio of the Visitation of Mary and Elizabeth in the church of Santa Maria Novella in Florence, but it is now believed that Vasari made a mistake and that Ghirlandaio painted Giovanna Tornabuoni."},{"label":"DBpedia:Separation_of_Light_from_Darkness","descr":"The Separation of Light from Darkness is, from the perspective of the Genesis chronology, the first of nine central panels that run along the center of Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel ceiling and which depict scenes from the Book of Genesis. Michelangelo probably completed this panel in the summer of 1512, the last year of the Sistine ceiling project. It is one of five smaller scenes that alternate with four larger scenes that run along the center of the Sistine ceiling. The Separation of Light from Darkness is based on verses 3-5 from the first chapter of the Book of Genesis: And God said, \"Let there be light,\" and there was light. God saw that the light was good, and He separated the light from the darkness. God called the light \"day,\" and the darkness he called \"night. \" And there was evening, and there was morning\u2014the first day. Although in terms of the Genesis chronology it is the first of nine central panels along the Sistine ceiling, the Separation of Light from Darkness was the last of the nine panels painted by Michelangelo. Michelangelo painted the Sistine ceiling in two stages. Between May 1508 and the summer of 1511, he completed the \"entrance half\" of the Sistine chapel and ended this stage by painting the Creation of Eve and the scenes flanking this central panel. After an idle period of about 6 months, he painted the \"altar half,\" starting with the Creation of Adam, between the winter of 1511 and October 1512."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Child's_Bath","descr":"The Child's Bath (or The Bath) is an 1893 oil painting by American artist Mary Cassatt. The subject matter and the overhead perspective were inspired by Japanese woodblocks. It shows dignity in motherhood and has a style similar to that of Degas. The Art Institute of Chicago acquired the piece in 1910. It has since become one of the most popular pieces in the museum."},{"label":"DBpedia:Sponsa_de_Libano","descr":"Sponsa de Libano (The Bride of Lebanon) is a painting by the Pre-Raphaelite artist Edward Burne-Jones dated 1891. The painting is based on extracts from the Song of Solomon in the Bible. \"Come with me from Lebanon, my spouse\u00a0... \" \"Awake, O north wind; and come thou south; blow upon my garden\u00a0... \" It shows the bride walking in the garden with female personifications of the two winds blowing towards her. On each side of the bride are white lilies, symbolising her virginity. The pose of the bride is inspired by Botticelli's figures. The painting is based on an earlier design by Burne-Jones for a tapestry. Sponsa de Libano forms part of the Victorian collection in the Walker Art Gallery, Liverpool, Merseyside, England. It is painted in gouache and tempera on paper and measures 332.5 centimetres by 155.5 centimetres . The picture was purchased by the gallery in 1896. In the same year the gallery purchased a study for the painting. This had been prepared in about 1891, drawn in chalk on paper, and shows the head used for one of the winds. The model was a twelve-year old Jewish girl, who modelled for both winds, and was told to \"look wild and blow with your lips\". The study is now held by the Lady Lever Art Gallery in Port Sunlight, Merseyside."},{"label":"DBpedia:Adoration_of_the_Shepherds_(Caravaggio)","descr":"The Adoration of the Shepherds is a 1609 painting by the Italian artist Caravaggio."},{"label":"DBpedia:Presentation_at_the_Temple_(Bellini)","descr":"The Presentation at the Temple is a painting of the Presentation of Jesus at the Temple by the Italian master Giovanni Bellini, dating to c. 1460. It is housed in the Fondazione Querini Stampalia, in Venice, Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:Turkish_Slave","descr":"Turkish Slave is a painting by the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino, executed around 1533. It is housed in the Galleria nazionale di Parma, northern Italy. The title of \"Turkish Slave\" derives from the misinterpretation of the sitter's headwear as a turban. It is in fact a typical headdress of noblewomen of the time, with examples appearing in numerous contemporary portraits."},{"label":"DBpedia:Allegory_(Filippino_Lippi)","descr":"Allegory is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Filippino Lippi, executed around 1498. It is now housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence. The work had been variously assigned, from Leonardo da Vinci to an unknown 15th century painter."},{"label":"DBpedia:Caspar_David_Friedrich_in_his_Studio","descr":"Caspar David Friedrich in his Studio refers to two paintings by the German romantic artist Georg Friedrich Kersting of 1811 and 1819. Of these the 1819 version is the best known. In these two paintings Kersting depicted fellow German painter Caspar David Friedrich in his studio."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Virgin_appearing_to_St._Bernard","descr":"The Virgin appearing to St. Bernard is a painting by the Italian artist Pietro Perugino, the main painter of the Umbrian school that was based in Perugia. The panel was executed as an altarpiece for the church of Santa Maria Maddalena dei Pazzi in Florence. It was later acquired in 1829\/30 for King Ludwig I of Bavaria from the Capponi in Florence, and eventually made it to the Alte Pinakothek in Munich. The work has been called \"one of the high points of European painting in the late 15th century. \" The painting shows Bernardino of Siena, deep in his studies, being interrupted by a fully corporeal vision of the Virgin Mary, who appears to him in the clear light of day. Four saints surround them. There is a seemingly effortless, perfect symmetry about the composition, yet there is nothing static or artificial about it in any way. The position of the Virgin and St. Bernard's prie-dieu are both slightly off balance, but not enough to ruin the serene harmony of the picture. The faces of the various figures contribute to this quiet beauty, without showing much individualism or realism. Likewise, the colours are bright and radiant, without being flashy."},{"label":"DBpedia:Darmstadt_Madonna","descr":"The Darmstadt Madonna (also known as the Madonna of Jakob Meyer zum Hasen) is an oil painting by Hans Holbein the Younger. Completed in 1526 in Basel, the work shows the B\u00fcrgermeister of Basel Jakob Meyer zum Hasen, his first wife (who had died earlier), his current wife, and his daughter grouped around the Madonna and infant Jesus. The meaning of the two other male figures on the left side is, like the overall iconography of the image, not entirely clear. The image testified to the resolutely Catholic faith of the B\u00fcrgermeister, who actively opposed the Reformation. The painting was influenced by Italian Renaissance religious painting, with elements of Netherlandish portrait painting. Earlier located in Darmstadt, whence its title, the work has been on temporary loan to the St\u00e4delschen Kunstinstitut in Frankfurt am Main since 2004 and until 2011. As of 2012, the painting is at display in the Johanniterkirche in Schw\u00e4bisch Hall."},{"label":"DBpedia:Unfinished_portrait_of_Franklin_D._Roosevelt","descr":"The Unfinished Portrait is a watercolor of Franklin Delano Roosevelt that was in progress at the time of his collapse and subsequent death."},{"label":"DBpedia:Madonna_del_Padiglione_(Botticelli)","descr":"The Madonna and Child with Three Angels (also known as Madonna del Padiglione) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, executed in 1493. It is housed in the Pinacoteca Ambrosiana of Milan. The Virgin Mary is portrayed while giving her breast to the Child, the latter being supported by an angel. The Italian name derives from the rich baldachin over the scene."},{"label":"DBpedia:Miss_La_La_at_the_Cirque_Fernando","descr":"Miss La La at the Cirque Fernando is a painting by Edgar Degas, the French Impressionist artist, now in the collection of the National Gallery in London, England. It shows the acrobat Miss La La hanging on a rope by her teeth at the Cirque Fernando in Montmartre, Paris. The painting was bought by the Trustees of the Courtauld Fund in 1925. It was returned from the Tate Gallery to the National Gallery in 1950."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_an_Unknown_Woman","descr":"Portrait of an Unknown Woman (also known as The Unknown Woman, An Unknown Lady or Stranger) is a painting by the Russian artist Ivan Kramskoi, executed in 1883. The identity of the model is unknown and depicts a woman of \"quiet strength and forthright gaze\". It is one of Russia's best-known art works, although a number of critics were indignant when the painting was first exhibited and condemned what they saw as a depiction of a haughty and immoral woman. Its popularity has grown with changes in public taste. Frederick R. Andresen states that the painting supposedly inspired Leo Tolstoy\u2019s Anna Karenina character, but further notes the book was published about ten years prior to the painting. The painting has been used as the cover for some editions of the book. The painting hangs in the Tretyakov Gallery, Moscow, while an earlier version, also dated 1883, is housed at the Arts Center in Kiel."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Sea_of_Ice","descr":"The Sea of Ice, also called The Wreck of Hope (German: Die gescheiterte Hoffnung) is an oil painting of 1823\u20131824 by the German Romantic artist Caspar David Friedrich."},{"label":"DBpedia:St._Francis_in_Ecstasy","descr":"The Ecstasy of St. Francis (or St. Francis in the Desert) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, who started this painting in 1475 and finished it around 1480. It is now housed in the Frick Collection in New York City, displayed prominently in what was Henry Clay Frick's living room. This painting is oil on panel, which recalls Mantegna. Still in very good condition, though it has been cut down, it has otherwise apparently been well-cared for since its creation. The work is signed IOANNES BELLINUS on a small rumpled carta visible in the lower left corner. It portrays St. Francis of Assisi in ecstasy whether receiving the stigmata, as Millard Meiss suggested, or, as the saint's mouth is open and his face lifted to the sky, perhaps singing his Canticle of the Sun, as Richard Turner has argued. The representation is a fresh one; it corresponds to no specific legend of the saint's life known to be circulating in the fifteenth century, nor does it follow any of the established iconographic motifs. In the left middle-ground is an immobile donkey which can be interpreted as a symbol of humility and patience, but also of laziness, stupidity or obstinacy. In the lower right corner, on a rustic reading table, is a skull, representing mortality, welcomed in the last stanza of the saint's Canticle. The cave may relate Francis to Jerome. The stream in the left middle-ground symbolizes Moses and the great spring, while the barren tree in the center of the painting represents the burning bush; the saint has left his wooden pattens behind and stands barefoot like Moses. In the distance rises the still-empty Heavenly Jerusalem. The overall composition is also thought to be a meditation of St. Francis on the creation of the world as stated in the book of Genesis. 95px Donkey 123px Skull 93px Heron 101px Hare 144px Stigmata, Right Hand 124px Stigmata, Left Hand \u003Cdiv style=\"clear: both\" \/\u003E 251px Pattens 264px Signature of the Painter 106px Head of Saint Francis \u003Cdiv style=\"clear: both\" \/\u003E"},{"label":"DBpedia:Gar%C3%A7on_%C3%A0_la_pipe","descr":"Gar\u00e7on \u00e0 la Pipe (English: Boy with a Pipe) is a painting by Pablo Picasso. It was painted in 1905 when Picasso was 24 years old, during his Rose Period, soon after he settled in the Montmartre section of Paris, France. The oil on canvas painting depicts a Parisian boy holding a pipe in his left hand and wearing a garland or wreath of flowers."},{"label":"DBpedia:Death_of_Sardanapalus","descr":"Death of Sardanapalus (La Mort de Sardanapale) is an oil painting on canvas, dated 1827 by Eug\u00e8ne Delacroix. Its dimensions are 392\u00a0\u00d7 496\u00a0cm or 12\u2032\u20131\u2033\u00a0\u00d7 16\u2032\u20133\u2033. It currently hangs in the Mus\u00e9e du Louvre, Paris. Its most dominant feature is a large divan, with its golden elephants, on which a nude prostrates herself and beseeches the apathetic Sardanapalus for mercy. Sardanapalus (Detail) had ordered his possessions destroyed and sex slaves murdered before immolating himself, once he learned that he was faced with military defeat. Death of Sardanapalus is based on the tale of Sardanapalus, the last king of Assyria, from the historical library of Diodorus Siculus, the ancient Greek historian, and is a work of the era of Romanticism. This painting uses rich, vivid and warm colors, and broad brushstrokes. It was inspired by Lord Byron's play Sardanapalus (1821), and in turn inspired a cantata by Hector Berlioz, Sardanapale (1830), and also Franz Liszt's opera, Sardanapale (1845\u201352, unfinished). A smaller replica painted by Delacroix in 1844 is now in the Philadelphia Museum of Art."},{"label":"DBpedia:Seven_Sacraments_Altarpiece","descr":"The Seven Sacraments Altarpiece is a fixed-wing triptych by the Early Netherlandish artist Rogier van der Weyden and his workshop. It was painted from 1445 to 1450, probably for a church in Poligny, and is now in the Royal Museum of Fine Arts, Antwerp. It depicts the seven sacraments of the Roman Catholic Church. On the left panel are baptism, confirmation and confession and on the right hand panel the ordination of a priest, marriage and the last rites. The central panel (possibly the only autograph part of the work) is dominated by a crucifixion in the foreground, with the sacrament of the Eucharist in the background. Angels hover over each sacrament with scrolls, with clothes colour-matched to the sacraments, from white for baptism to black for the last rites. The side panels also depict the altarpiece's commissioners, along with some portrait heads only added shortly before the work was completed. A coat of arms (probably that of the commissioner) is painted in the spandrels of the painting's inner frame."},{"label":"DBpedia:El_Rio_de_Luz","descr":"El Rio de Luz (The River of Light) (1887) is an oil on canvas landscape by Frederic Edwin Church acquired by the National Gallery of Art in 1965. According to the NGA, the work is a \"fanciful pastiche\" of the many sketches and drawings Church made while traveling in South America in 1857. The NGA notes that \"the tightly focused realism, the overall tonal harmony and restrained coloration, and the compositional unity all lend a remarkable cohesiveness to the work. \" William Earl Dodge, Jr. (d. 1903) was the original owner of the work and passed it to his descendants. In 1965 it was given to the Preservation Society of Newport County, Rhode Island, and purchased in December 1965 by the National Gallery of Art. The painting was restored in 1988."},{"label":"DBpedia:Orphan_Girl_at_the_Cemetery","descr":"The Orphan Girl at the cemetery (also known as Young Orphan Girl in the Cemetery) (c. 1823 or 1824) is a painting by the French artist Eug\u00e8ne Delacroix."},{"label":"DBpedia:Girl_at_Sewing_Machine","descr":"Girl at Sewing Machine is a 1921 painting by Edward Hopper, currently housed in the Museo Thyssen-Bornemisza in Madrid, Spain. It portrays a young girl sitting at a sewing machine facing a window on a beautiful sunny day. The location appears to be New York as is evident from the yellow bricks in the window. The exterior vantage point although present only aids in putting the interior activity in perspective. It is one of the first of many of Hopper's \"window paintings\". Hopper's repeated decision to pose a young woman against her sewing is said to be his commentary on solitude. The painting is the inspiration for Mary Leader's poem of the same name."},{"label":"DBpedia:Woman_with_a_Lute","descr":"Woman with a Lute, also known as Woman with a Lute Near a Window, is a painting created about 1662\u20131663 by Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer and now at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. The painting depicts a young woman wearing an ermine-trimmed jacket and enormous pearl earrings as she eagerly looks out a window, presumably expecting a male visitor. \"A musical courtship is suggested by the viola da gamba on the floor in the foreground and by the flow of songbooks across the tabletop and onto the floor,\" according to a web page about the work at the Metropolitan Museum of Art website. The tuning of a lute was recognized by contemporary viewers as a symbol of the virtue of temperance. The oil on canvas work is 20\u00bc\u00a0inches high and 18\u00a0inches wide (51.4 \u00d7 45.7\u00a0cm). The work likely was painted shortly after than Young Woman with a Water Pitcher, and it shares with that painting its framing of the figure within rectangular motifs. But the painting has more muted tones, reflecting a shift in that direction by Vermeer in the mid- to late 1660s. At this time, Vermeer began using shadows and soft contours to further evoke an atmosphere of intimacy. \"The impression of spatial recession and atmosphere is somewhat diminished by darkening with age of the objects in the foreground and by abrasion of the paint surface, mostly in the same area,\" according to the Metropolitan Museum of Art web page. The painting was given to the museum in 1900 by a bequest of railroad industrialist Collis P. Huntington."},{"label":"DBpedia:Judith_Beheading_Holofernes_(Caravaggio)","descr":"Judith Beheading Holofernes is a work by Caravaggio, painted in 1598-99. The widow Judith first charms the Assyrian general Holofernes, then decapitates him in his tent."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Wounded_Man_(painting)","descr":"The Wounded Man is an 1844-1854 self-portrait by Gustave Courbet."},{"label":"DBpedia:Apocalyptic_Rider","descr":"Apocalyptic Rider is a painting created by Nabil Kanso in 1980. It is oil on canvas measuring 7 X 9 feet (2 X 2.65 meters), and is part of a series depicting horsemen in compositions dealing with apocalyptic themes. The painting depicts a scene in which a horseman appears riding forward between two horizontally juxtaposed horses. The \"Rider,\" symbolically representing horseman of the Apocalypse, is shown moving toward a figure falling near a mother holding a child. The composition of the picture is focused on the image formed by the rider and horses in the central plane. Its area, which occupies much of the pictorial space, appears to links the background and foreground, and to reinforce the tense atmosphere generated by the subject matter and the rendering of dense layers of paint applied with broad brushstrokes across the entire surface. The tone reflects a contrast of blue black against red. Some art critics interpreted the work as a metaphor for the wars in Central America and the Middle East. Others suggest that the compositional conception of the figures, colors, symbols and textures give a sense of imminent threat underlining the depicted theme."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_Miniature_of_Margaret_Roper","descr":"Portrait Miniature of Margaret Roper is a painting by the German artist and printmaker Hans Holbein the Younger created between 1535\u201336, and today held in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. Margaret Roper (1505\u201344) was the eldest child of Sir Thomas More and wife of the English biographer William Roper. It is the second and less well known of two portraits of Roper painted by Holbein. The first, Portrait of an English Woman, is generally believed to show Roper but may depict another unknown lady of the English court. The New York work was painted during the artist's second visit to London, likely in the mid-1530s. It is believed that the work was created shortly after her father's beheading at the hands of King Henry VIII in 1535. With a diameter of just 1+\u20444 inches, the work was one of over a hundred miniatures and portraits painted by Holbein while in England. This work is one of a pair of pendants; the second depicts the sitter's husband. Roper is depicted in three-quarters view with a narrow face and wearing extravagant clothes that reflect her social position. She has a long veil crowned by a red\/orange headdress. Her black gown is lined with a broad band of fur. She holds a green book in her hands which are decorated by gold rings. A horizontal gold inscription reads \"Ao \u00c6TATIS XXX\". The work was donated to the Metropolitan Museum by the Rogers Fund in 1950."},{"label":"DBpedia:La_maja_desnuda","descr":"La maja desnuda (known in English as The Nude Maja or sometimes The Naked Maja) is an oil on canvas painting by the Spanish painter Francisco Goya (1746\u20131828), portraying a nude woman reclining on a bed of pillows. It was executed some time between 1797 and 1800, and is among the first clear depictions of female pubic hair in a large Western painting. The painting has been in the Museo del Prado in Madrid since 1910."},{"label":"DBpedia:Village_F%C3%AAte","descr":"Village F\u00eate (or in Fr. La F\u00eate villageoise) is an oil-on-canvas by French artist of the Baroque Claude Lorrain, painted in 1639 and given to Louis XIV in 1693 together with its companion Seaport at Sunset, by landscape architect and gardener Andr\u00e9 Le N\u00f4tre. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:Emblematical_Print_on_the_South_Sea_Scheme","descr":"Emblematical Print on the South Sea Scheme (also known as The South Sea Scheme) is an early print by William Hogarth, created in 1721 and widely published from 1724. It caricatures the financial speculation, corruption and credulity that caused the South Sea Bubble in England in 1720\u20131."},{"label":"DBpedia:La_velata","descr":"La velata, or La donna velata (\"The woman with the veil\"), is one of the most famous portraits by the Italian Renaissance painter Raphael. The subject of the painting appears in another portrait, La Fornarina, and is traditionally identified as the fornarina (bakeress) Margherita Luti, Raphael's Roman mistress."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Census_at_Bethlehem","descr":"The Census at Bethlehem (also known as The Numbering at Bethlehem) is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1566. Acquired in 1902, it is currently held and exhibited at the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium in Brussels."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Crossing_Sweeper","descr":"For the occupation upon which this painting was based, see crossing sweeper. The Crossing Sweeper is an 1858 painting by William Powell Frith which has been described as breaking \"new ground in its description of the collision of wealth and poverty on a London street.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_a_Knight_(Carpaccio)","descr":"Portrait of a Knight is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Vittore Carpaccio. It is housed in the Thyssen-Bornemisza Collection of Madrid; it was put up for sale by heirs of the American collector Otto Kahn after his death and sold to Heinrich Thyssen in 1935. Dated 1510, this is the earliest full-length portrait in Western painting - on the assumption that it is a portrait, as seems likely. It is characteristic of Carpaccio that apart from this important innovation, the style of the painting seems in other respects to look back to the previous century. The subject is now considered most likely to be Francesco Maria I della Rovere, the Duke of Urbino, and nephew of Pope Julius II, during whose reign it was painted. Until the 20th century the painting had been given the monogram of Albrecht D\u00fcrer, and Carpaccio's signature overpainted. The realism and detail of Carpaccio does in fact show Northern influence. The painting shows a young knight, surrounded by a rather crowded series of symbols. The heron caught in the sky by a hawk might hint at this knight's death in battle, also alluded to by his posture, which recalls that of a funerary statue; an alternative theory is that this is a memorial portrait of a person already dead. The other knight with a lance might then be the same person during his life. In the left lower corner is a white ermine and a scroll stating \"I prefer to die rather than to incur dishonour\" (malo mori quam foedari). The symbolism of these and the other animals and plants have been much discussed by art historians."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Golden_Fleece_(painting)","descr":"The Golden Fleece, originally known as Shearing at Newstead, is an 1894 painting by the Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting depicts sheep shearers plying their trade in a timber shearing shed at Newstead North, a sheep station near Inverell on the Northern Tablelands of New South Wales. The same shed is depicted in another of Roberts' works, Shearing Shed, Newstead (1894). The painting was originally titled Shearing at Newstead but was renamed The Golden Fleece after the Golden Fleece of Greek mythology to honour the wool industry and the nobility of the shearers. This was in keeping with Roberts' conscious idealisation of the Australian pastoral worker and landscape. The painting, said to be \"an icon of Australian art\", is part of the collection of the Art Gallery of New South Wales."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Treachery_of_Images","descr":"The Treachery of Images (La trahison des images, 1928\u201329, sometimes translated as The Treason of Images) is a painting by the Belgian Ren\u00e9 Magritte, painted when Magritte was 30 years old. The picture shows a pipe. Below it, Magritte painted, \"Ceci n'est pas une pipe\", French for \"This is not a pipe. \" The famous pipe. How people reproached me for it! And yet, could you stuff my pipe? No, it's just a representation, is it not? So if I had written on my picture \"This is a pipe,\" I'd have been lying! The theme of pipes with the text \"Ceci n'est pas une pipe\" is extended in his 1966 painting, Les Deux Myst\u00e8res. Currently it is shown at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art."},{"label":"DBpedia:Not_to_be_Reproduced","descr":"Not to be Reproduced (La reproduction interdite, 1937) is a painting by the Belgian surrealist Ren\u00e9 Magritte. It currently is owned by the Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam. This painting was commissioned by poet and Magritte patron Edward James and is considered a portrait of James although James' face is not depicted. This painting was one of three produced by Magritte for the ballroom of James' London home. The other two were The Red Model (1937) and Time Transfixed (1938). The work depicts a man standing in front of a mirror, but whereas the book on the mantelpiece is reflected correctly, the man can see only the back of his head."},{"label":"DBpedia:Bonaparte_at_the_Pont_d'Arcole","descr":"Bonaparte at the Pont d\u2019Arcole (French: Bonaparte au Pont d\u2019Arcole) is a 1796 painting by Antoine-Jean Gros, showing an episode during the battle of the pont d'Arcole, with general Bonaparte leading his troops to storm the bridge."},{"label":"DBpedia:Shakuntala_(Raja_Ravi_Varma)","descr":"Shakuntala or Shakuntala looking for Dushyanta is an epic painting by celebrated Indian painter, Raja Ravi Varma. Ravi Varma, depicts Shakuntala, a prominent character of Mahabaratha, pretending to remove a thorn from her foot, while actually looking for her husband\/lover, Dushyantha, while her friends call her bluff."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Fall_of_the_Rebel_Angels_(Bruegel)","descr":"The Fall of the Rebel Angels is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1562. It is currently held and exhibited at the Royal Museums of Fine Arts of Belgium in Brussels."},{"label":"DBpedia:A_Lane_near_Arles_(Landscape_with_Edge_of_a_Road)","descr":"A Lane Near Arles was painted by Vincent Van Gogh in 1888, while he was living in Arles. It depicts a lane surrounded by trees running between the fields outside of Arles, France. A yellow house stands at the side of the lane. The use of color in the painting is typical of Van Gogh in this period. The colors are bright and alive, lighting up the canvas and offering a view that is more perceived than actually experienced. The idyllic nature of the moment is thus conveyed in the use of colors. A Lane Near Arles is currently in the collection of the Pommersches Landesmuseum, Greifswald, in Germany."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Basket_of_Apples","descr":"The Basket of Apples is a still life oil painting by French artist Paul C\u00e9zanne. It belongs to the Helen Birch Bartlett Memorial Collection of the Art Institute of Chicago. The piece is often noted for its disjointed perspective. It has been described as a balanced composition due to its unbalanced parts; the tilted bottle, the incline of the basket, and the foreshortened lines of the cookies meshing with the lines of the tablecloth. Additionally, the right side of the tabletop is not in the same plane as the left side, as if the image simultaneously reflects two viewpoints. Paintings such as this helped form a bridge between Impressionism and Cubism."},{"label":"DBpedia:Farmhouse_Among_Trees","descr":"Farmhouse Among Trees is an oil painting created in 1883 by Vincent van Gogh."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_End_of_the_World_(painting)","descr":"The End of the World, commonly known as The Great Day of His Wrath, is an 1851\u20131853 oil painting on canvas by the English painter John Martin. According to Frances Carey, the painting shows the \"destruction of Babylon and the material world by natural cataclysm\". This painting, Frances Carey holds, is a response to the emerging industrial scene of London as a metropolis in the early nineteenth century, and the original growth of the Babylon civilization and its final destruction. Some other scholars such as William Feaver see the painting as \"the collapse of Edinburgh in Scotland\". Charles F. Stuckey is skeptical of the link with Edinburgh. According to the Tate, the painting depicts a portion of Revelation 16, a chapter from the New Testament. Leopold Martin, John Martin's son, said that his father found the inspiration for this painting on a night journey through the Black Country. This has led some scholars to hold that the rapid industrialization of England in the early nineteenth century influenced Martin. Some authors have used the painting as the front cover for their books, examples include Mass of the Apocalypse and Studies in the Book of Revelation."},{"label":"DBpedia:Self_Portrait_(Rembrandt,_Vienna)","descr":"Self Portrait (or The Large Self-Portrait) is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch artist Rembrandt. Painted in 1652, it is one of at least 40 self-portraits painted by the artist, and was the first he had painted since 1645. In composition it is different from his previous self-portraits, depicting the painter in a direct frontal pose, hands on his hips, and with an air of self-confidence. It was painted the year that his financial difficulties began, and breaks with the sumptuous finery he had worn in previous self-portraits. Art historian Christopher White has called it \"one of the most magisterial and sombre of these (late) pictures\". It is in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna. The freely painted clothing includes a brown robe that was most likely casual working attire, secured with a sash, over a black doublet with an upturned collar. A drawing from c. 1650 shows Rembrandt in much the same pose and attire, and features an inscription, though not by the artist's hand, stating that these were the artist's studio clothes. In the drawing Rembrandt is seen wearing a top hat, while in the painting he wears a black beret derivative of artists' portraits of the 16th century. Following a period of seven years when he painted no self-portraits, focusing instead on landscapes and intimate domestic subjects, the Vienna Self Portrait inaugurated a prolific stretch in which Rembrandt painted an average of one self-portrait a year until his death in 1669. Contrary to the popular understanding that these paintings primarily represented a deeper personal interest in self-depiction, Ernst van de Wetering has proposed that they were painted specifically for connoisseurs who collected self-portraits by prominent artists. As in other late portraits and self-portraits by Rembrandt, a painted underlayer shows through in areas of shadow, here particularly in the eye sockets and beneath the moustache. Microscopic analysis has revealed that this is not the painted ground layer, which is a similar gray color, but a separate underlayer of paint. This local imprimatura, used in preparation for specific areas of the painting, was also practiced by Vermeer, and its purpose is not fully understood. A strong similarity has been noted to the self-portrait of c. 1655, also in the Vienna Kunsthistorisches Museum. The later work shares the frontal angle, lighting, and informal attire of the larger painting, though the artist's face appears older. A painting of Rembrandt' son Titus van Rijn, by another artist in the style of Rembrandt, duplicates the pose and positioning of the figure in the Self Portrait."},{"label":"DBpedia:Saint_John_the_Baptist_(Titian)","descr":"Saint John the Baptist is a 1540 painting of John the Baptist by Titian, with his traditional attributes of the Lamb of God and a staff. In the background is a Giorgionesque landscape with the river Jordan, in which Christ was baptised."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Leslie_W._Miller","descr":"Portrait of Leslie W. Miller is a 1901 painting by Thomas Eakins, Goodrich #348. It is in the permanent collection of the Philadelphia Museum of Art."},{"label":"DBpedia:Cars_(painting)","descr":"Cars is a series of artworks by the American artist Andy Warhol, commissioned by Mercedes-Benz in 1986. A German art dealer, Hans Meyer, commissioned the first painting, of a 300SL coupe, to celebrate the 1986 centenary of the invention of the motor car. When Mercedes-Benz saw the result, it commissioned the entire series, which was to track the evolution of its designs from the Benz Patent-Motorwagen 1885, Daimler Motor Carriage (1886), and Mercedes 35 hp (1901), to the Mercedes-Benz W125, and the Mercedes-Benz C111. Now part of Mercedes-Benz's corporate art collection, Cars was unfinished at the time of Warhol's death in 1987. Warhol completed 36 silkscreen prints and 13 drawings of eight Mercedes models before his death. Warhol had planned to cover 20 models in 80 pieces. The series was based on photographs of cars, and were the first non-American designed objects that Warhol had portrayed in his work. Cars has been exhibited just twice in its entirety in public: in T\u00fcbingen in 1988, and at the Albertina, Vienna from 22 January\u201316 May 2010. Half of the series was shown in Milton Keynes in September 2001. Cars was Warhol's second automotive art project. In 1979 Warhol was commissioned by BMW to paint a Group 4 race version of the then elite supercar BMW M1 for the fourth installment in the BMW Art Car Project. Unlike the three artists before him, Warhol declined the use of a small scale practice model, instead opting to immediately paint directly onto the full scale automobile. It was indicated that Warhol spent only a total of 23 minutes painting the entire car. Warhol's work for Mercedes Benz and his similar commissions for Perrier have been criticized as \"undistinguished glitz\", with critics lamenting Warhol's \"passionate avarice\", accusing him of crossing the line into advertisements for their subjects."},{"label":"DBpedia:Le_B%C3%A9n%C3%A9dicit%C3%A9","descr":"Le B\u00e9n\u00e9dicit\u00e9 (English: Grace) is a painting by the French artist Jean-Baptiste-Sim\u00e9on Chardin. Chardin made several versions of the painting, one of which was given as a gift to Louis XV. The subject of the painting is one of bourgeois, everyday tranquillity \u2013 Chardin's field of expertise, with an uncharacteristic touch of sentimentality."},{"label":"DBpedia:Outskirts_of_Paris_(Van_Gogh)","descr":"Outskirts of Paris are paintings that Vincent van Gogh made in 1887, while he was living in Paris with his brother Theo."},{"label":"DBpedia:Divisionism","descr":"Divisionism (also called Chromoluminarism) was the characteristic style in Neo-Impressionist painting defined by the separation of colors into individual dots or patches which interacted optically. By requiring the viewer to combine the colors optically instead of physically mixing pigments, divisionists believed they were achieving the maximum luminosity scientifically possible. Georges Seurat founded the style around 1884 as chromoluminarism, drawing from his understanding of the scientific theories of Michel Eug\u00e8ne Chevreul, Ogden Rood and Charles Blanc, among others. Divisionism developed along with another style, pointillism, which is defined specifically by the use of dots of paint and does not necessarily focus on the separation of colors."},{"label":"DBpedia:Rest_on_the_Flight_into_Egypt_(Caravaggio)","descr":"Rest on the Flight into Egypt (c. 1597) is a painting by the Italian Baroque master Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio, in the Doria Pamphilj Gallery, Rome. It depicts an angel playing the violin to the Holy Family during their flight into Egypt."},{"label":"DBpedia:Ferdinand_Lured_by_Ariel","descr":"Ferdinand Lured by Ariel is a painting by John Everett Millais which depicts an episode from Act I, Scene II of Shakespeare's play The Tempest. It illustrates Ferdinand's lines \"Where should this music be? i' the air or the earth?\". He is listening to Ariel singing the lyric \"Full fathom five thy father lies\". Ariel is tipping Ferdinand's hat from his head, while Ferdinand holds on to its string and strains to hear the song. Ferdinand looks straight at Ariel, but the latter is invisible to him. The painting was Millais' first attempt at the plein air Pre-Raphaelite style, which he did at Shotover Park near Oxford. He wrote to his close friend and Pre-Raphaelite colleague Holman Hunt that he had painted a \"ridiculously elaborate\" landscape. Referring to Hunt's belief in devotion to detail he wrote that \"you will find it very minute, yet not near enough for nature. To paint it as it ought to be would take me a month a weed \u2014 as it is, I have done every blade of grass and leaf distinct. \" He painted the face of Ferdinand from another Pre-Raphaelite, Frederic George Stephens. The clothing and the pose are derived from plate 6 of Camille Bonnard's Costumes Historiques, which represents the costume of a \"young Italian\" of the fifteenth century. The supernatural green bats were the last additions to the composition. Their grotesque poses put off the patron who had originally undertaken to buy it, since they were a radical departure from the standard sylph-like fairy figures of the day. They adopt the poses of \"see, hear, speak no evil. \" The invisibility of Ariel and the bats is suggested by their semi-merger with the green background. The connection with natural camouflage is implied by the presence of the green lizards hiding in front of the clump in the right foreground. The painting was bought by the collector Richard Ellison, and later entered the collection of Roger Makins, 1st Baron Sherfield who acquired several Millais paintings."},{"label":"DBpedia:Salutat","descr":"Salutat is an 1898 painting by Thomas Eakins (1844\u20131916). Based on a real-life boxing match that occurred in 1898, the work depicts a boxer waving to the crowd after the match. According to Eakins' biographer Lloyd Goodrich, Salutat is \"one of Eakins' finest achievements in figure-painting. \" The painting's title is Latin for \"He greets\" or \"He salutes.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Haystacks_(Monet)","descr":"Haystacks is a title of a series of impressionist paintings by Claude Monet. The primary subjects of all of the paintings in the series are stacks of hay in the field after the harvest season. The title refers primarily to a twenty-five canvas series begun in the end of summer of 1890 and continued through the following spring, using that year's harvest. Some use a broader definition of the title to refer to other paintings by Monet with this same theme. The series is known for its thematic use of repetition to show differences in perception of light across various times of day, seasons, and types of weather. The subjects were painted in fields near Monet's home in Giverny, France. The series is among Monet's most notable works. Although the largest collections of Monet's work is held in Paris at the Mus\u00e9e d'Orsay and Mus\u00e9e Marmottan Monet, other notable Monet collections are in Boston, Massachusetts at the Museum of Fine Arts, New York City at the Metropolitan Museum and Museum of Modern Art, and Tokyo at the National Museum of Western Art, six of the twenty-five haystacks pieces in this series are currently housed at the Art Institute of Chicago in Chicago, Illinois, United States. In addition, the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, Massachusetts, United States holds two, and the Mus\u00e9e d'Orsay in Paris, France holds one. Other museums that hold parts of this series in their collection include: the Getty Center in Los Angeles, the Hill-Stead Museum in Farmington, Connecticut (which also has one of five from the earlier 1888-9 harvest), the National Gallery of Scotland in Edinburgh, Scotland, United Kingdom, the Minneapolis Institute of Arts in Minneapolis, Minnesota, United States, Kunsthaus Z\u00fcrich in Z\u00fcrich, Switzerland, and the Shelburne Museum, Shelburne, Vermont, United States. Several private collections also hold Haystack paintings."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Swallow's_Tail","descr":"The Swallow's Tail \u2014 Series on Catastrophes (French: La queue d'aronde \u2014 S\u00e9rie des catastrophes) was Salvador Dal\u00ed's last painting. It was completed in May 1983, as the final part of a series based on Ren\u00e9 Thom's catastrophe theory. Thom suggested that in four-dimensional phenomena, there are seven possible equilibrium surfaces, and therefore seven possible discontinuities, or \"elementary catastrophes\": fold, cusp, swallowtail, butterfly, hyperbolic umbilic, elliptic umbilic, and parabolic umbilic. \"The shape of Dal\u00ed\u2019s Swallow\u2019s Tail is taken directly from Thom\u2019s four-dimensional graph of the same title, combined with a second catastrophe graph, the s-curve that Thom dubbed, \"the cusp\". Thom\u2019s model is presented alongside the elegant curves of a cello and the instrument\u2019s f-holes, which, especially as they lack the small pointed side-cuts of a traditional f-hole, equally connote the mathematical symbol for an integral in calculus: . \" In his 1979 speech, \"Gala, Vel\u00e1zquez and the Golden Fleece\", presented upon his 1979 induction into the prestigious Acad\u00e9mie des Beaux-Arts of the Institut de France, Dal\u00ed described Thom\u2019s theory of catastrophes as \u2018the most beautiful aesthetic theory in the world\u2019. He also recollected his first and only meeting with Ren\u00e9 Thom, at which Thom purportedly told Dal\u00ed that he was studying tectonic plates; this provoked Dal\u00ed to question Thom about the railway station at Perpignan, France, which the artist had declared in the 1960s as the centre of the universe. Thom reportedly replied, \"I can assure you that Spain pivoted precisely \u2014 not in the area of \u2014 but exactly there where the Railway Station in Perpignan stands today\". Dal\u00ed was immediately enraptured by Thom\u2019s statement, influencing his painting Topological Abduction of Europe \u2014 Homage to Ren\u00e9 Thom, the lower left corner of which features an equation closely linked to the \u2018swallow\u2019s tail\u2019: an illustration of the graph, and the term \u2018queue d'aronde\u2019. The seismic fracture that transverses Topological Abduction of Europe reappears in The Swallow\u2019s Tail at the precise point where the y-axis of the swallow\u2019s tail graph intersects with the S-curve of the cusp."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Enraged_Musician","descr":"The Enraged Musician is a 1741 etching and engraving by English artist William Hogarth which depicts a comic scene of a violinist driven to distraction by the cacophony outside his window. It was issued as companion piece to the third state of his print of The Distrest Poet."},{"label":"DBpedia:Theotokos_of_Tolga","descr":"The Theotokos of Tolga (Russian: \u0422\u043e\u043b\u0433\u0441\u043a\u0430\u044f \u0438\u043a\u043e\u043d\u0430 \u0411\u043e\u0436\u0438\u0435\u0439 \u041c\u0430\u0442\u0435\u0440\u0438) is a Russian Orthodox icon representing the Virgin Mary with the infant Jesus Christ. The Theotokos of Tolga, named after the Tolga river in Yaroslavl, is known in three copies created between the end of the 13th and the beginning of the 14th-century. They were drawn in Eleusa type. One of them, traditionally called a \"Manifested\" icon, was manifested to Prokhor, the Bishop of Rostov in 1314. The icon version of the end of 13th-century (Throne icon or Tolgskaya I) is held in the Tretyakov Gallery, while the Manifested one (also known as Tolgskaya II) is in the Tolga Monastery. Tolgskaya III was created circa 1327. It is currently held in the Russian Museum. Theotokos of Tolga is referred to as the patroness of the Yaroslavl land."},{"label":"DBpedia:Oath_of_the_Horatii","descr":"Oath of the Horatii, is a large painting by the French artist Jacques-Louis David painted in 1784 and now in the Louvre in Paris. The painting immediately became a huge success with critics and the public, and remains the best known painting of Neoclassicism. It depicts a scene from a Roman legend about a dispute between two warring cities; Rome and Alba Longa, when three brothers from a Roman family, the Horatii, agree to end the war by fighting three brothers from a family of Alba Longa, the Curiatii. The three brothers, all of whom appear willing to sacrifice their lives for the good of Rome, are shown saluting their father who holds their swords out for them. The principal sources for the story behind David's Oath are the first book of Livy (sections 24-6) which was elaborated by Dionysius in book 3 of his Roman Antiquities. However, the moment depicted in David's painting is his own invention. It grew to be considered a paradigm of neoclassical art. The painting increased David's fame, allowing him to take on his own students."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Ecumenical_Council_(painting)","descr":"The Ecumenical Council is a surrealist painting by Spanish artist Salvador Dal\u00ed completed in 1960. It is one of his masterpieces, taking two years to complete and very large at 299.7 by 254 centimetres (\u00a0in \u00d7\u00a0\u00a0in). The painting is a complex assemblage of art historical references and religious scenes emphasizing Catholic symbolism. Dal\u00ed was inspired to paint The Ecumenical Council upon the 1958 election of Pope John XXIII, as the pope had extended communication to Geoffrey Fisher, the Archbishop of Canterbury; the first such invitation in more than four centuries. The painting expresses Dal\u00ed's renewed hope in religious leadership following the devastation of World War II. Today, it is housed in the Salvador Dal\u00ed Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Tommaso_Inghirami","descr":"Portrait of Tommaso Inghirami is an oil painting by Italian artist Raphael. Painted ca. 1509, it exists in two copies, one of which is in display in the Palatina Gallery in Florence and the other in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston. Known for its realism and attention to detail, the image is reminiscent of works by Hans Holbein the Elder, by whom Raphael may have been influenced in its execution. Stylistically, it relates to Raphael's Portrait of Agnolo Doni, ca.1506, in what Claudio Strinati described in 1998 as its \"merciless clarity. \" The subject of the painting, Tommaso Inghirami, was a friend of Raphael's, a prelate nicknamed Phaedra following a skillful exhibition of Latin poetry improvisation during a performance of Seneca's Phaedra wherein he carried the title role. A popular orator and actor, Tommaso Inghirami suffered from strabismus. According to 2005's Cambridge Companion to Raphael, the piece is \"the first likeness into which Raphael introduced the concept of movement\", in the twist of his body as he contemplates his composition. By means of this device, Raphael focused attention away from his subject's disfigurement."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Circumcision_(Signorelli)","descr":"The Circumcision is a painting of the Circumcision of Jesus by the Italian Renaissance painter Luca Signorelli, in the National Gallery in London, dated to c. 1490-1491. The Circumcision was also the occasion of the naming of Jesus, and by this period the emphasis of Catholic devotion was on the Holy Name of Jesus. The work was commissioned by the local Confraternity of the Holy Name of Jesus for the altar of the Circumcision Chapel in the church of St. Francis at Volterra, where Signorelli was working for the Medicis. Like many Renaissance versions of the subject it conflates it with the Presentation of Jesus by including at the rear Simeon. The Renaissance art historian and artist Giorgio Vasari saw the painting and described it as damaged by humidity, the Child having been repainted by Il Sodoma. The painting was acquired by the National Gallery in 1882."},{"label":"DBpedia:Christ_among_the_Doctors_(D%C3%BCrer)","descr":"Christ among the Doctors is an oil painting by Albrecht D\u00fcrer, dating to 1506, now in the Museo Thyssen-Bornemisza, Madrid, Spain. The work dates to D\u00fcrer's sojourn in Venice, and was executed (according to the inscription Opus Quinque Dierum, meaning \"Made in five days\") hastily while he was working at the Feast of the Rosary altarpiece. According to some sources, it could have been gifted to painter Giovanni Bellini. In the latter's house it was perhaps seen by Lorenzo Lotto, who used one of the figures in the painting for his Madonna with Child between Sts. Flavian and Onuphrius now in the Borghese Gallery. The subject had been already treated by D\u00fcrer in a woodcut of the Life of the Virgin series and in a panel of the Seven Sorrows Polyptych. However, in the Venetian work the German artist adopted a totally new composition, with the characters occupying the whole scene and surrounding the young Jesus, leaving a little room for the black background. The character at the left of Jesus is a true caricature, perhaps inspired by one of Leonardo da Vinci's drawings seen by D\u00fcrer. The man in the lower right corner has a cartouche on his beret, a custom of the Pharisees. The one on the opposite side is perhaps a citation of Bellini."},{"label":"DBpedia:Adoration_of_the_Child_(Gentile_da_Fabriano)","descr":"The Adoration of the Child is an tempera and gold on panel painting by the Italian late medieval artist Gentile da Fabriano, dating from around 1420-1421 and housed in the Getty Center of Los Angeles, USA. The work is generally dated from between Gentile's quick stay in his hometown, Fabriano, in the Spring of 1420, and his arrival to Florence in the following summer. There are indeed similarities with the female faces in the Adoration of the Magi, although the presence of copies by local followers in the Marche and Dalmatia could imply that the painting was at some location in the Adriatic Sea area."},{"label":"DBpedia:Le_R%C3%AAve_Transform%C3%A9","descr":"Le R\u00eave Transform\u00e9 (in English, The Transformed Dream) is a 1913 painting by the Greek-Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. This work contains the classic de Chirico images of an empty urban scene at late evening with a ghostly train on the horizon. This time in the foreground is an arrangement of bananas, pineapples and a Greek sculpture."},{"label":"DBpedia:Liberty_Leading_the_People","descr":"Liberty Leading the People (French: La Libert\u00e9 guidant le peuple) is a painting by Eug\u00e8ne Delacroix commemorating the July Revolution of 1830, which toppled Charles X of France. A woman personifying Liberty leads the people forward over the bodies of the fallen, holding the flag of the French Revolution - the tricolor flag which is still France's flag today - in one hand and brandishing a bayonetted musket with the other. The figure of Liberty is also viewed as a symbol of France and the French Republic known as Marianne."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Emperor_Maximilian_I","descr":"The Portrait of Emperor Maximilian I is an oil painting by Albrecht D\u00fcrer, dating to 1519 and now at the Kunsthistorisches Museum of Vienna, Austria. It portrays the emperor Maximilian I."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Mill_(Rembrandt)","descr":"The Mill is a painting by Dutch baroque artist Rembrandt Harmenszoon van Rijn. It is in the permanent collection of the National Gallery of Art in Washington DC. For a long time, the attribution to Rembrandt was regarded as doubtful; it has been restored in recent years, although it is not universally accepted. The painting was formerly in the Orleans Collection."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Persistence_of_Memory","descr":"The Persistence of Memory (Spanish: La persistencia de la memoria; Catalan: La persist\u00e8ncia de la mem\u00f2ria) is a 1931 painting by artist Salvador Dal\u00ed, and is one of his most recognizable works. First shown at the Julien Levy Gallery in 1932, the painting has been in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) in New York City since 1934. It is widely recognized and frequently referenced in popular culture."},{"label":"DBpedia:Still_Life_with_Geraniums","descr":"Still Life with Geraniums is a 1910 oil on canvas painting by Henri Matisse. It is in the collection of Pinakothek der Moderne, Munich, Germany, to whom it was given in 1912, thus becoming, according to the museum, the first Matisse to enter a public collection. It was one of six paintings in the museum's collection to survive World War II. The painting should not be confused with Matisse's 1906 painting Still Life with a Geranium, which is held by the Art Institute of Chicago, or his 1912 painting Pot of Geraniums in the National Gallery of Art. (Juan Gris also painted Pot of Geraniums in 1915, sold at auction in 2007.)"},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Daughters_of_Edward_Darley_Boit","descr":"The Daughters of Edward Darley Boit (originally titled Portraits d'enfants) is a painting by John Singer Sargent. The painting depicts four young girls, the daughters of Edward Darley Boit, in their family's Paris apartment. It was painted in 1882 and is now exhibited in the new Art of the Americas Wing of the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. The painting hangs in between the two tall blue-and-white Japanese vases depicted in the work; they were donated by the heirs of the Boit family. It has been described as \"Arguably the most psychologically compelling painting of Sargent's career\". Though the painting's unusual composition was noted from its earliest viewings, initially its subject was interpreted simply as that of girls at play, but it has subsequently been viewed in more abstract terms, reflecting Freudian analysis and a greater interest in the ambiguities of adolescence. Edward Boit was the son-in-law of John Perkins Cushing and a friend of Sargent's. Boit was an \"American cosmopolite\" and a minor painter. His wife and the mother of his five children was Mary Louisa Cushing, known as \"Isa\". Their four daughters were Florence, Jane, Mary Louisa and Julia."},{"label":"DBpedia:Annunciation_(Leonardo)","descr":"This is a painting of the traditional subject of the Annunciation, by the Italian Renaissance artists Leonardo da Vinci and Andrea del Verrocchio, dating from circa 1472\u20131475 and housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence, Italy. The angel holds a Madonna lily, a symbol of Mary's virginity and of the city of Florence. It is supposed that Leonardo originally copied the wings from those of a bird in flight, but they have since been lengthened by a later artist. When the Annunciation came to the Uffizi in 1867, from the Olivetan monastery of San Bartolomeo, near Florence, it was ascribed to Domenico Ghirlandaio, who was, like Leonardo, an apprentice in the workshop of Andrea del Verrocchio. In 1869, Karl Eduard von Liphart, the central figure of the German expatriate art colony in Florence, recognized it as a youthful work by Leonardo di ser Piero da Vinci, one of the first attributions of a surviving work to the youthful Leonardo. Since then a preparatory drawing for the angel's sleeve has been recognized and attributed to Leonardo. Verrocchio used lead-based paint and heavy brush strokes. He left a note for Leonardo to finish the background and the angel. Leonardo used light brush strokes and no lead. When the Annunciation was x-rayed, Verrocchio's work was evident while Leonardo's angel was invisible. The marble table, in front of the Virgin, probably quotes the tomb of Piero and Giovanni de' Medici in the Basilica of San Lorenzo, Florence, which Verrocchio had sculpted during this same period. Some immature hesitancies are usually noted, especially the Virgin's ambiguous spatial relation to the desk and the marble on which it rests."},{"label":"DBpedia:Madonna_del_Granduca","descr":"The Madonna del Granduca is a Madonna painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. It was probably painted in 1505, shortly after Raphael had arrived in Florence. The influence of Leonardo da Vinci, whose works he got to know there, can be seen in the use of sfumato. The painting belonged to Ferdinand III, Grand Duke of Tuscany, from whom it got its name."},{"label":"DBpedia:Judith_Slaying_Holofernes_(Artemisia_Gentileschi)","descr":"Judith Slaying Holofernes is a painting by the Italian early Baroque artist Artemisia Gentileschi completed between 1611\u201312. The work shows an apocrypha scene from the Old Testament Book of Judith which details the delivery of Israel from the Assyrian general Holofernes. In this scene, Holofernes has been seduced by Judith, who along with her maidservant behead the general after he has fallen asleep drunk. The painting is relentlessly physical, from the wide spurts of blood to the energy of the two women as they try to wield the large dagger. The effort of the women's struggle is most finely represented by the delicate face of the maid which is grasped by the oversized, muscular fist of Holofernes as he desperately struggles to survive. Part of the reason that the painting is so realistic is because it was very personal to Artemisia. Although it is a classic scene from the Bible, she drew herself as Judith and her mentor Agostino Tassi, who was tried in court for her rape, as Holofernes. Gentileschi's biographer Mary Garrard famously proposed an autobiographical reading of the painting, stating that it functions as \"a cathartic expression of the artist's private, and perhaps repressed, rage. \" This self-insertion was reversed in an influential composition by Cristofano Allori (c. 1613 onwards), which exists in several versions and copied a conceit of Caravaggio's recent David with the Head of Goliath; here the head is a portrait of the artist, Judith his ex-mistress, and the maid her mother. Caravaggio's Judith Beheading Holofernes is believed to be the main source of this work, and his influence can be seen in the naturalism and violence Gentileschi brings to her canvas. In both there is a notable absence of decorative detail in the background. Gentileschi's father was a painter of repute; he was also very much influenced by Caravaggio's style, and painted his own version of Judith slaying Holofernes. Artemisia herself painted two near identical versions of the episode; the second was completed sometime between 1614\u201318, and is held in the Uffizi Gallery in Florence. A different composition by Artemisia Gentileschi in the Pitti Palace in Florence shows a more traditional scene with head in a basket. Judith's beheading of Holofernes has been explored by a number of artists including Giorgione, Titian, Rembrandt and Peter Paul Rubens."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Suicide_of_Saul","descr":"The Suicide of Saul is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1562. It is currently held and exhibited at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna."},{"label":"DBpedia:Alba_Madonna","descr":"The Alba Madonna is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael, depicting Mary, Jesus and John the Baptist, in a typical Italian countryside. John the Baptist is holding up a cross to Jesus, which the baby Jesus is grasping. All three figures are staring at the cross. The three figures are grouped to the left in the round design, but the outstretched arm of the Madonna and the billowing material of her cloak balance the image. This Madonna was commissioned by Paolo Giovio who planned to send it to the church of the Olivetani in Nocera dei Pagani. In the 18th century, the painting belonged to the Spanish House of Alba, whose name it bears. In 1836 it was acquired by Nicholas I of Russia, who made it one of the highlights of the Imperial Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg. A century later the Soviet Government clandestinely sold it to Andrew W. Mellon, who donated his collection to the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. , where it may be seen today. During its time in the Hermitage, the painting would be transferred from a circular panel to a square canvas during the early nineteenth century. Through analysis of the painting, it was determined that the original panel was severely splitting down the center and on the right side. The canvas pattern is visible in the painting and the landscape on the far right was damaged in the transfer process."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Black_Brunswicker_(Millais)","descr":"The Black Brunswicker (1860) is a painting by John Everett Millais. It was inspired in part by the exploits of the Black Brunswickers, a volunteer corps of the Napoleonic Wars, during the Waterloo campaign and in part by the contrasts of black broadcloth and pearl-white satin in a moment of tender conflict. The painting was originally exhibited with the plural title The Black Brunswickers, but is most commonly known by the singular form of the title."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Young_Botanist","descr":"The Young Botanist is a painting by Canadian artist Paul Peel. Peel began work on the painting in 1888. He continued work for two more years, completing the work in 1890. In 1987, Museum London, in London, Ontario, purchased the painting. It is still located there."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Sower","descr":"The Sower, created in 1907, is an oil on canvas painting by the Slovene Impressionist painter and musician Ivan Grohar. It is an image of a peasant sowing seeds on a ploughed field in an early and foggy morning. A hayrack, typical of the Slovene landscape, stands in the back, and even farther, the rocks of the small hill Kamnitnik near \u0160kofja Loka. It has been a metaphor for the 19-th century myth of Slovenes as a vigorous nation in front of an unclear destiny, a symbol for the Slovene nation that sows in order that it could harvest, and a depiction of human interrelatedness with the nature. It is also a reflection of the context of Slovene transition from a rural to an urban culture. It has become one of the most characteristic and established Slovene creations in visual arts. It has been used by the IRWIN art group as well as the Semenarna Ljubljana seed company, and is depicted on the Slovenian 5 cent euro coin."},{"label":"DBpedia:Sir_Nicholas_Serota_Makes_an_Acquisitions_Decision","descr":"Sir Nicholas Serota Makes an Acquisitions Decision is one of the best known paintings to come out of the Stuckism art movement, and a likely \"signature piece\" for the movement, standing for its opposition to conceptual art. It was painted by the Stuckism co-founder Charles Thomson in 2000, and has been exhibited in a number of shows since, as well as being featured on placards during Stuckist demonstrations against the Turner Prize. It depicts Sir Nicholas Serota, Director of the Tate Gallery, and the usual chairman of the Turner Prize jury. \"Emin\" satirises Young British Artist Tracey Emin's installation My Bed, consisting of her bed and objects, including knickers, which she exhibited in 1999 as a Turner Prize nominee."},{"label":"DBpedia:A_Young_Tiger_Playing_with_its_Mother","descr":"A Young Tiger Playing with its Mother is a painting of 1830-31 by French artist Eug\u00e8ne Delacroix depicting two enormous tigers \"playing\" with each other. Painted early in his career, it shows how the artist was attracted to animal subjects in this period. The painting was exhibited at the Salon of 1831, and archives of Delacroix's will executor, Achille Piron, revealed that the painter had paid 1,200 francs to insure it. It belonged to M. Maurice Cottier and now is on display at Room 77 of Louvre in Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:Venus_Anadyomene_(Titian)","descr":"Venus Anadyomene (Greek - literally, Venus rising from the sea), is a c. 1520 oil painting by Titian, depicting Venus rising from the sea and wringing her hair, either after bathing or after her birth. Venus, said to have been born from a shell, is identified by the shell at bottom left. It is smaller than usual in birth of Venus scenes, such as Botticelli's, and is likely just an identifier rather than a sure sign that this is a birth of Venus scene. The voluptuousness of the Venus presented, and her sideways glance, also owes much to the Crouching Venus and Cnidian Venus types of antique sculpture. The wringing of her hair is a direct imitation of Apelles's lost masterwork of the same title. Titian deliberately included this detail to prove that he could rival the art of antiquity in which the goddess was also washing her hair \u2014 a fact mentioned in Pliny's Natural History. The painting is in exceptionally fine condition. It was once owned by Christina of Sweden, and passed via the Orleans Collection to 6th Duke of Sutherland, who loaned it and 26 other paintings to the National Galleries of Scotland in 1945. On the death of the childless Duke in 2000, the work was acquired from his cousin, Francis Egerton, 7th Duke of Sutherland for more than \u00a311m in 2003, with the aid of the National Arts Collection Fund. Also contributing to the purchase were the Wolfson Foundation, the Heritage Lottery Fund (\u00a37.6m), and the Scottish Executive (\u00a32.5m). To facilitate the sale, \u00a32.4m of the picture's value was offset against inheritance tax. The market value has been estimated at \u00a320m. After the sale, the 7th Duke said, \"To all intents and purposes nothing has changed, except the painting will now belong to the nation. \" It soon afterwards formed the centrepiece of an exhibition in 2004 and the anniversary exhibition \"Saved!\" for the National Art Collections Fund."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Peasant_Wedding","descr":"The Peasant Wedding is a 1567 painting by the Flemish Renaissance painter and printmaker Pieter Bruegel the Elder, one of his many depicting peasant life. It is currently housed in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Tortoise_Trainer","descr":"The Tortoise Trainer is a painting painted by Osman Hamdi Bey in 1906 and 1907 (two versions). In 2004 it was sold for $3.5M."},{"label":"DBpedia:Dana%C3%AB_(Klimt_painting)","descr":"Dana\u00eb is an oil painting by Gustav Klimt, created in 1907. An example of Symbolism, the canvas measures 77 x 83\u00a0cm, and is in the Galerie W\u00fcrthle in Vienna. Dana\u00eb was a popular subject in the early 1900s for many artists; she was used as the quintessential symbol of divine love, and transcendence. While imprisoned by her father, King of Argos, in a tower of bronze, Dana\u00eb was visited by Zeus, symbolized here as the golden rain flowing between her legs. It is apparent from the subject's face that she is aroused by the golden stream. In this work, she is curled in a sumptuous royal purple veil which refers to her imperial lineage. Sometime after her celestial visitation she gave birth to a son, Perseus, who is cited later in Greek mythology for slaying the Gorgon Medusa and rescuing Andromeda. Many early portrayals of Dana\u00eb were erotic; other paintings completed in similar style are Klimt's Medicine (1900\u20131907), and ' (1904\u20131907)."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Blind_Leading_the_Blind","descr":"The Blind Leading the Blind is a tempera-on-canvas by Pieter Bruegel the Elder, dating from 1568 and housed in the Capodimonte Museum, Naples, southern Italy. Other titles include Blind and The Parable of the Blind."},{"label":"DBpedia:Christina's_World","descr":"Christina's World is a 1948 painting by American painter Andrew Wyeth, and one of the best-known American paintings of the middle 20th century. It depicts a woman lying on the ground in a treeless, mostly tawny field, looking up at a gray house on the horizon; a barn and various other small outbuildings are adjacent to the house. This tempera work, done in a realist style, is currently on display at the Museum of Modern Art in New York, as a part of its permanent collection."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Jurist_(painting)","descr":"The Jurist, also known as The Lawyer, is an oil-on-canvas painting by Italian artist Giuseppe Arcimboldo, painted in 1566. It shows a member of the legal profession, whose facial features are depicted using meat and fish, and whose body is composed of legal documents. Two versions of the painting exist; the first, from 1566, is held by the National Museum of Fine Arts (Nationalmuseum) in Stockholm (acquired from a collection at Gripsholm Castle in 1866), and a later version is held by a private collector in Milan. Arcimboldo was employed as court painter to Maximilian II and was already well established as an artist by the time he created The Jurist. He was known for his innovative style, particularly for his portraits in which the subjects were composed of everyday objects. His fantastical and imaginative paintings somewhat foreshadowed the Surrealist movement of the 20th century, but were also appreciated as part of the Mannerist tradition of his own time. His series of paintings, The Four Seasons, which depicted the changing seasons as series of portraits composed of seasonal plants, were particularly popular, and he even created a portrait of Rudolf II (entitled Vertemnus) in the same style. The artist's feelings about his subject in The Jurist are clear from the composition; the features of the face are represented by the plucked carcasses of poultry and the sneering mouth by fish. It is not known if the subject is a caricature of the legal profession in general or based on a real jurist of the time. The German jurist Ulrich Zasius is normally suggested as the subject; the Nationalmuseum lists the picture in its catalogue as The Lawyer (Ulrich Zasius), but Calvin has also been suggested. Arcimboldo's portrait of The Librarian (Il Bibliotecario), painted the same year, has a more noble aspect, although this portrait too has been interpreted as a parody of librarianship, book collectors, and intellectualism."},{"label":"DBpedia:Bonaparte_Crossing_the_Alps","descr":"Bonaparte Crossing the Alps (also called Napoleon Crossing the Alps, despite the existence of another, more well-known painting with that name) is an 1848\u20131850 oil-on-canvas portrait of Napoleon Bonaparte, by French artist Hippolyte Delaroche. The painting depicts Bonaparte leading his army through the Alps on a mule, a journey Napoleon and his army of soldiers made in the spring of 1800, in an attempt to surprise the Austrian army in Italy. The two main versions of this painting that exist are in the Louvre in Paris and the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool, England. Queen Victoria also obtained a reduced version of it. The work was inspired by Jacques-Louis David's series of five Napoleon Crossing the Alps paintings (1801\u20131805). David's works also show Napoleon's journey through the Great St. Bernard Pass, but there are significant stylistic differences between the two conceptions. Delaroche's Napoleon is cold and downcast, whereas David's wears a pristine uniform, and is idealized as a hero. Delaroche was commissioned to paint a realistic portrait; the style of which was emerging at the time. While the painting largely represented\u2014and was one of the pioneers of\u2014an emerging style, the work was criticised by several authorities on the subject. The reasons for this varied from Delaroche's depiction of the scene to a general disapproval of Delaroche himself. Many of those who were in the latter state of mind felt that Delaroche was trying to match the genius of Napoleon in some way, and had failed miserably in doing so."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Battle_of_Alexander_at_Issus","descr":"The Battle of Alexander at Issus is a 1529 oil painting by the German artist Albrecht Altdorfer (c. 1480\u20131538), a pioneer of landscape art and a founding member of the Danube school. It portrays the 333\u00a0BC Battle of Issus, in which Alexander the Great secured a decisive victory over Darius III of Persia and gained crucial leverage in his campaign against the Persian Empire. The painting is widely regarded as Altdorfer's masterpiece, and exemplifies his affinity for scenes of monumental grandeur. Duke William IV of Bavaria commissioned The Battle of Alexander at Issus in 1528 as part of a set of historical pieces that was to hang in his Munich residence. Modern commentators suggest that the painting, through its abundant use of anachronism, was intended to liken Alexander's heroic victory at Issus to the contemporary European conflict with the Ottoman Empire. In particular, the defeat of Suleiman the Magnificent at the Siege of Vienna may have been an inspiration for Altdorfer. A religious undercurrent is detectable, especially in the extraordinary sky; this was probably inspired by the prophecies of Daniel and contemporary concern within the Church about an impending apocalypse. The Battle of Alexander at Issus and four others that were part of William's initial set are in the Alte Pinakothek art museum in Munich."},{"label":"DBpedia:Woman_III","descr":"Woman III is a painting by abstract expressionist painter Willem de Kooning. Woman III is one of a series of six paintings by de Kooning done between 1951 and 1953 in which the central theme was a woman. It measures 68 by 48+\u20442 inches (by m) and was completed in 1953. From late 70s to 1994 this painting was part of Tehran Museum of Contemporary Art collection, but after the revolution in 1979, this painting could not be shown because of strict rules set by the government about the visual arts and what they depict. Finally, in 1994 it was quietly traded by Thomas Ammann Fine Art to David Geffen for the remainder of the 16th century Persian manuscript, the Tahmasbi Shahnameh. In November 2006, the painting was sold by Geffen to billionaire Steven A. Cohen for $137.5 million, making it the third most expensive painting ever sold."},{"label":"DBpedia:Stormy_Sea_in_%C3%89tretat","descr":"The Stormy Sea in \u00c9tretat is an 1883 painting by founder of French impressionist Claude Monet, now preserved at the Mus\u00e9e des Beaux-Arts de Lyon. The painting depicts a stormy sea on a winter day. The cliff that can be seen is that of \u00c9tretat, as Monet stayed in the city many times from the winter 1864-1865, and wrote: \"I spend my time outdoors on the stone when it's big time [... ... ] and of course I work all the time. \" Monet composed the painting in February 1883 from the window of the hotel he lived then. Subsequently, the painting was bought by the Parisian dealer Paul Durand-Ruel, then became the property of the Museum of Fine Arts in Lyon in 1902. The museum thus became a precursor gaining early in the twentieth century Impressionist paintings. The painting is composed of four major elements, each of them having been painted in a different way. The central part is invaded by the pearlized surfs painted in forms of commas. In the foreground, a small beach on which there are old boats filled with thatch on the left, and two fishermen with their boats in poor condition that ran aground on the shore. On the left, in the background, the cliff of \u00c9tretat can be seen and the rock strata are evoked by horizontal lines of brush. Finally, the upper part of the painting shows the sky, painted in a way that expresses a curtain of rain."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Death_of_Actaeon","descr":"The Death of Actaeon is a late work by Italian Renaissance master Titian, painted in 1559 to 1575 as an oil on canvas and now housed in the National Gallery of London, United Kingdom. It is probably one of the two paintings the artist states he has started and hopes to finish (one of which he calls \"Actaeon mauled by hounds\") in a letter to their commissioner Philip II of Spain during June 1559. However, most of Titian's work on this painting possibly dates to the mid-1560s. The public campaign in 1971 to buy it for the United Kingdom was one of the great successes of Martin Davies's directorship of the National Gallery and it was eventually purchased in 1972 with a special grant and Art Fund and Pilgrim Trust contributions, as well as via funds raised by a public appeal. As catalogue number NG6420, it now usually hangs in the Central Hall."},{"label":"DBpedia:Woman_in_Blue_Reading_a_Letter","descr":"Woman in Blue Reading a Letter is a painting by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. Part of the collection of the Rijksmuseum Amsterdam since 1885, it was the first Vermeer acquired by the museum."},{"label":"DBpedia:Galatea_of_the_Spheres","descr":"Galatea of the Spheres is a painting by Salvador Dal\u00ed made in 1952. It depicts Gala Dal\u00ed, Salvador Dal\u00ed's wife and muse, as pieced together through a series of spheres. The name Galatea refers to a sea nymph of Classical mythology renowned for her virtue, and may also refer to the statue beloved by its creator, Pygmalion. Measuring 65.0 x 54.0 cm, the painting depicts the head and shoulders of Gala composed of a matrix of spheres seemingly suspended in space. It represents a synthesis of Renaissance art and atomic theory and illustrates the ultimate discontinuity of matter, the spheres themselves representing atomic particles. Dal\u00ed had been greatly interested in nuclear physics since the first atomic bomb explosions of August 1945, and described the atom as his \"favourite food for thought\". Recognising that matter was made up of atoms which did not touch each other, he sought to replicate this in his art at the time, with items suspended and not interacting with each other, such as in The Madonna of Port Lligat. This painting was also symbolic of his attempt to reconcile his new faith in Catholicism with nuclear physics. His friend, painter Antoni Pitxot, recalled that Dal\u00ed held in high regard the depth of perspective in the painting and the spheres he had painted. Dal\u00ed wished for this painting to be displayed on an easel, which had been owned by French painter Jean-Louis-Ernest Meissonier, in a suite of three rooms called the Palace of the Winds (named for the tramontana) in the Dal\u00ed Theatre and Museum in Figueres. It remains on display there to this day. It was transported to and exhibited at the National Gallery of Victoria in Melbourne in 2009, along with many other Dal\u00ed paintings in the Liquid Desire exhibition."},{"label":"DBpedia:Music_in_the_Tuileries","descr":"Music in the Tuileries is a painting by \u00c9douard Manet which hangs in the The Hugh Lane, Dublin. It is an early example of Manet's painterly style, inspired by Frans Hals and Diego Vel\u00e1zquez, and it is a harbinger of his lifelong interest in the subject of leisure. While the picture was not regarded as finished by some, the suggested atmosphere imparts a sense of what the Tuileries gardens were like at the time; one may imagine the music and conversation. Here Manet has depicted his friends, artists, authors, and musicians who take part, and he has included a self-portrait among the subjects. Included in the image are Manet himself, Charles Baudelaire, Th\u00e9ophile Gautier, Henri Fantin-Latour, Jacques Offenbach, and Manet's brother Eug\u00e8ne."},{"label":"DBpedia:Saint_Apollonia_(Zurbar%C3%A1n)","descr":"Saint Apollonia is a 1636 oil-on-canvas painted by the Spanish artist Francisco de Zurbar\u00e1n. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Astronomer_(Vermeer)","descr":"The Astronomer is a painting finished about 1668 by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. It is oil on canvas, 51\u00a0cm x 45\u00a0cm (20 x 18 in), and is on display at the Louvre, Paris. Portrayals of scientists were a favourite topic in 17th century Dutch painting and Vermeer's oeuvre includes both this astronomer and the slightly later The Geographer. Both are believed to portray the same man, possibly Antonie van Leeuwenhoek. The astronomer's profession is shown by the celestial globe and the book on the table, Metius's Institutiones Astronomicae Geographicae). Symbolically, the volume is open to Book III, a section advising the astronomer to seek \"inspiration from God\" and the painting on the wall shows the finding of Moses\u2014Moses may represent knowledge and science (\"learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians\")."},{"label":"DBpedia:Bocca_Baciata","descr":"Bocca Baciata (1859) is a painting by Dante Gabriel Rossetti which represents a turning point in his career. It was the first of his pictures of single female figures, and established the style that was later to become a signature of his work. The model was Fanny Cornforth, the principal inspiration for Rossetti's sensuous figures. The title, meaning \"mouth that has been kissed\", refers to the sexual experience of the subject and is taken from the Italian proverb written on the back of the painting: Bocca baciata non perde ventura, anzi rinnova come fa la luna. \u2018The mouth that has been kissed does not lose its savour,indeed it renews itself just as the moon does. \u2019 Rossetti, an accomplished translator of early Italian literature, probably knew the proverb from Boccaccio\u2019s Decameron where it is used as the culmination of the tale of Alatiel: a beautiful Saracen princess who, despite having had sex on perhaps ten thousand occasions with eight separate lovers in the space of four years, successfully presents herself to the King of the Algarve as his virgin bride. Rossetti explained in a letter to William Bell Scott that he was attempting to paint flesh more fully, and to \"avoid what I know to be a besetting fault of mine - & indeed rather common to PR painting - that of stipple in the flesh... Even among the old good painters, their portraits and simpler pictures are almost always their masterpieces for colour and execution; and I fancy if one kept this in view, one might have a better chance of learning to paint at last. \" The painting may have been influenced by Millais' portrait of his sister-in-law Sophie Gray, completed two years earlier."},{"label":"DBpedia:Falling_Autumn_Leaves","descr":"Fall of Leaves, or Falling Autumn Leaves is a pair of paintings (in French pendants, i. e. counterparts) by the Dutch painter Vincent van Gogh executed during the two months he shared his studio in Arles with his friend and mentor Paul Gauguin, as well as the subjects they chose."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Four_Seasons_(Sozzi)","descr":"The Four Seasons (Le Quattro Stagioni it) is a cycle of four frescoes by Francesco Sozzi in the Palazzo Isnello, Palermo, Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Great_Executioner","descr":"The Great Executioner is a mezzotint by the soldier and amateur artist Prince Rupert of the Rhine (1619-1682), finished in 1658. The subject of the picture is the execution of John the Baptist, after Jusepe de Ribera's painting. Rupert had become interested in mezzotint design during his time in Europe during the Interregnum following the English civil war, and there is an extensive debate over Rupert's role in the invention of the technique itself. Rupert's mezzotint works were popularised by the print collector John Evelyn after the Restoration, and became much admired across Europe. The Great Executioner is generally considered to be one of Rupert's finest works; produced in 1658, it is still regarded by critics as containing 'brilliance and energy', 'superb', 'one of the greatest mezzotints', and 'among the finest [mezzotints mezzotints] ever produced'. Rupert's name can be seen signed along the executioner's blade."},{"label":"DBpedia:Flaming_June","descr":"Flaming June is a painting by Sir Frederic Leighton, produced in 1895. Painted with oil paints on a 47\" x 47\" square canvas, it is widely considered to be Leighton's magnum opus, showing his classicist nature. It is thought that the woman portrayed alludes to the figures of sleeping nymphs and naiads the Greeks often sculpted. The (toxic) Oleander branch in the top right, symbolises the fragile link between sleep and death. The actress Dorothy Dene and Mary Lloyd, who was depicted in paintings by various Pre-Raphaelite artists, have been variously credited with modeling for the work. Flaming June was auctioned in the 1960s, during a period of time known to be difficult for selling Victorian era paintings, where it failed to sell for its low reserve price of $140 USD (the equivalent of $840 in contemporary prices). Afterward, it was promptly purchased by the Ponce Museum of Art in Puerto Rico where it currently resides (see the following account)."},{"label":"DBpedia:Circumcision_of_Jesus_(Parmigianino)","descr":"The Circumcision of Jesus is a painting by the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino, executed around 1523 and housed in the Detroit Institute of Arts, United States."},{"label":"DBpedia:Aurora_Triumphans","descr":"Aurora Triumphans is a painting by Evelyn de Morgan, featuring the Roman goddess of dawn Aurora, that breaks the shackles of night. Aurora lies naked in the lower right corner, covered with carefully draped ropes of pink roses. Taking up two-thirds of the painting, there are three red-winged angels with trumpets and gold tunics. In the lower left corner there is a dark-robed Night, that swirls away a black cloak. In 1886 the painting was exhibited at the Grosvenor Gallery in London. The flowers strewn around Aurora and the pale glow of her naked body are set in opposition to the shadowy drapery of Night. Aurora's frontal, open pose reverses the anonymity of Night, who is turned away from the viewer. The painting currently belongs to the Russell-Cotes Museum in Bournemouth. Merton Russell-Cotes' son Herbert bought it for the museum in around 1922 thinking that it was a Burne-Jones original after an unscrupulous art dealer had painted over the signature with Burne-Jones' initials to get a higher price."},{"label":"DBpedia:Cutting_the_Stone","descr":"Cutting the Stone, also called The Extraction of the Stone of Madness or The Cure of Folly, is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch in the Museo del Prado in Madrid, completed around 1494 or later. The painting depicts the extraction of the stone of madness, a \"keye\" (in English a \"stone\" or \"bulb\") from a patient's head, using trepanation by a man wearing a funnel hat. In the painting Bosch has exchanged the traditional \"stone\" as the object of extraction with the bulb of a flower. Another flower is on the table. The Gothic inscription reads Meester snyt die keye rasMyne name Is lubbert Das . Lubbert Das was a comical (foolish) character in Dutch literature."},{"label":"DBpedia:Abstract_Head","descr":"Abstract Head (circa 1921) is an oil painting by Russian expressionist Alexej von Jawlensky. At about the end of World War I (1918), von Jawlensky started to draw 'mystic heads' or 'faces of saints'. He gave them poetic titles like Moonlight or Inner Look. Like Claude Monet who worked in series', he ended up concentrating on a single theme. Its appearance remained more or less constantly the same, yet varied in the use of the brush, the colorings and in the drawing, in order to bring up new aspects of an until then still unknown transcendent spirituality."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Railway","descr":"The Railway, widely known as Gare Saint-Lazare, is an 1873 painting by \u00c9douard Manet. It is the last painting by Manet of his favourite model, the fellow painter Victorine Meurent, who was also the model for his earlier works Olympia and the Luncheon on the Grass. It was exhibited at the Paris Salon in 1874, and donated to the National Gallery of Art in Washington DC in 1956."},{"label":"DBpedia:Holy_Allegory","descr":"The Holy Allegory is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, dating from c. 1490 to 1500. It is in the Uffizi gallery in Florence, Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:Madonna_di_Senigallia","descr":"The Madonna di Senigallia is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Piero della Francesca, finished around 1474. It is housed in the Galleria Nazionale delle Marche, in the Ducal Palace of Urbino. From its small scale the painting was intended for private devotion. It was noticed for the first time in 1822 in the church of the Observant Franciscan convent of Santa Maria degli Angeli outside Senigallia, whence the current name. Senigallia was wrested from Sigismondo Malatesta by Federico Montefeltro: both men were patrons of Piero. The commission was likely from or on behalf of Giovanni Della Rovere, betrothed in 1474 to Giovanna Montefeltro, at which time Federico invested Giovanni with Senigallia. Following its rediscovery the painting was taken to the Ducal Palace, Urbino. The 1990s restoration showed the high quality of Piero della Francesca's treatment of light, as well as the influence of Flemish masters on it, both in its oil on panel medium and in details such as the basket with linen gauze, the coral and the fabric covering the Madonna's head. The light, which realistically enters from the window on the left, is a symbol of the Virgin's conception. The linen in the basket is instead an allusion to her purity, while the case for hosts in the shelf and the coral hanging from Jesus' necklace both hint to the Eucharist sacrifice. The staring, thoughtful immobility of all the characters would be also an allusion to the latter."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Crossing_of_the_Red_Sea_(Poussin)","descr":"For the Biblical event itself, see Crossing the Red Sea. The Crossing of the Red Sea 300px Artist Nicolas Poussin Year 1633-1634 Type Oil on canvas Dimensions 155.6\u00a0cm \u00d7\u00a0215.3\u00a0cm Location National Gallery of Victoria, Melbourne The Crossing of the Red Sea is a painting by Nicolas Poussin, produced between 1633 and 1634. It depicts the crossing of the Red Sea by the Israelites, from chapter 14 of the book of Exodus. It was made as part of a pair of paintings (the other being The Adoration of the Golden Calf) commissioned by Amadeo dal Pozzo, Marchese di Voghera of Turin, a cousin to Cassiano dal Pozzo, Poussin's main sponsor in Rome. By 1685 the pair had passed to the Chevalier de Lorraine and in 1710 they were bought by Benigne de Ragois de Bretonvillers. In 1741 the pair was bought from Samuel by Sir Jacob Bouverie, whose son William became the first Earl of Radnor. The Earls of Radnor owned the pair from then until 1945, when it was split for the first time and The Adoration of the Golden Calf was sold to the National Gallery in London. The Crossing of the Red Sea was acquired by Kenneth Clark for the National Gallery of Victoria in 1948 using money from the Felton Bequest, a fund originally left to the gallery in 1904 by the industrialist Alfred Felton. In 2011 it underwent a major conservation project."},{"label":"DBpedia:Horsewoman_(painting)","descr":""},{"label":"DBpedia:Dream_Caused_by_the_Flight_of_a_Bee_Around_a_Pomegranate_a_Second_Before_Awakening","descr":"Dream Caused by the Flight of a Bee Around a Pomegranate a Second Before Awakening (1944) is a surrealist painting by Salvador Dal\u00ed. A short, alternate title for the painting is Sting Caused by the Flight of a Bee. It was painted in 1944, while Dal\u00ed and his wife, Gala, were living in America."},{"label":"DBpedia:Children's_Games_(Bruegel)","descr":"Children's Games is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1560. It is currently held and exhibited at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna."},{"label":"DBpedia:Surrender_of_General_Burgoyne","descr":"The Surrender of General Burgoyne is an oil painting by John Trumbull. The painting was completed in 1821, and hangs in the rotunda of the United States Capitol in Washington, D. C. The painting depicts the surrender of British Lieutenant General John Burgoyne at Saratoga, New York on October 17, 1777, ten days after the Second Battle of Saratoga. Included in the depiction are many leaders of the American Continental Army and militia forces that took part in the battle as well as the Hessian commander Friedrich Adolf Riedesel and two British Army officers: Burgoyne and General William Phillips."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Conspiracy_of_Claudius_Civilis","descr":"The Conspiracy of Claudius Civilis is a 1661\u201362 oil painting by the Dutch painter Rembrandt, which was originally the largest he ever painted, at around five by five metres in the shape of a lunette. The painting was commissioned by the Amsterdam city council for the Town Hall. After the work had been in place briefly, it was returned to Rembrandt, who may have never been paid. Rembrandt drastically cut down the painting to a quarter of the original size to be sold. It is the last secular history painting he finished."},{"label":"DBpedia:Salon_des_Refus%C3%A9s","descr":"The Salon des Refus\u00e9s, French for \u201cexhibition of rejects\u201d, is generally an exhibition of works rejected by the jury of the official Paris Salon, but the term is most famously used to refer to the Salon des Refus\u00e9s of 1863."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Ghost_of_Vermeer_of_Delft_Which_Can_Be_Used_As_a_Table","descr":"The Ghost of Vermeer of Delft Which Can Be Used As a Table (1934) is a painting by Spanish surrealist Salvador Dal\u00ed. The title refers to the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer and the image of Vermeer viewed from his back is a reference to Vermeer's paintings The Art of Painting and The Little Street. In this image Vermeer is represented as a dark spindly figure in a kneeling position. The figure\u2019s outstretched leg serves as a table top surface, on which sits a bottle and a small glass. This leg tapers to a baluster-like stub, however there is a shoe nearby."},{"label":"DBpedia:Woman_with_a_Water_Jug","descr":"Woman with a Water Jug, also known as Young Woman with a Water Pitcher, is a painting finished between 1660\u20131662 by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer in the Baroque style. It is oil on canvas, 45.7cm x 40.6 cm, and is on display at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York. This painting is one of a closely related group painted in the early to mid 1660s where the artist appears to be moving away from an emphasis on linear perspective and geometric order. He seems to be moving to a simpler form using only one figure and emphasizing the use of light. Young Woman with a Water Pitcher was purchased by Henry Gurdon Marquand in 1887 at a Paris gallery for $800. When Marquand brought it to the United States it was the first Vermeer in America. Marquand donated the artwork along with other pieces in his collection to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City."},{"label":"DBpedia:Martelli_Annunciation","descr":"The Martelli Annunciation is a painting by Filippo Lippi, in the Martelli Chapel in the left transept of the Basilica di San Lorenzo, Florence. There is no information about the painting's origin, although it is likely that it was originally placed in the current location; the dating to c. 1440 is based on the style and the presence of St. Nicholas in the predella panels: this because Niccol\u00f2 Martelli, a rich Florentine citizen which supported the reconstruction of the basilica during the Medici prominence in Florence. The painting is considered the very first knew example of squared altarpiece, without any traditional gothic decoration like pinnacles or cusps, in order to better match the simple architecture of the church, by Brunelleschi. The panel is divided in two by a central column. It uses geometrical perspective to show a complex architecture including several edifices and an open loggia. There are several elements suggesting the influence of Flemish painting, by which Lippi was influenced during his stay in Padua. These include the glass ampulla in the foreground, symbolizing the holy Spirit. On the left, over a step, is a group of angels, while on the right is the Annunciation scene, inspired to Donatello's Cavalcanti Annunciation (c. 1435). The angel is holding a white lily, a symbol of the Virgin's purity. 40x40px Wikimedia Commons has media related to: Annunciazione Martelli The three scenes in the predella are similar to those in the Barbadori Altarpiece, from 1438."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Courtyard_of_a_House_in_Delft","descr":"The Courtyard of a House in Delft is a 1658 painting by Pieter de Hooch, an example of Dutch Golden Age painting. The work was the subject of a poem by Derek Mahon."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Francesco_delle_Opere","descr":"The Portrait of Francesco delle Opere is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Perugino, dating to 1494 and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence."},{"label":"DBpedia:Miracle_of_the_Slave_(Tintoretto)","descr":"The Miracle of the Slave (also known as The Miracle of St. Mark, 1548) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Jacopo Tintoretto. Currently housed in the Gallerie dell'Accademia in Venice, northern Italy, it was originally commissioned for the Scuola Grande di San Marco, a confraternity in the city. It portrays an episode of the life of St. Mark, patron saint of Venice, taken from Jacopo da Varazze's Golden Legend. The scene shows, in the upper part, the saint intervening to make invulnerable a slave about to be martyred for his veneration of another saint's relics. All the figures are inscribed into an architectonic scenario. Different influences on Tintoretto's art can be seen in the picture: while the anatomies are Michelangelo-like, the vivid and intense colors are typical of the Venetian School."},{"label":"DBpedia:Las_Meninas_(Picasso)","descr":"Las Meninas is a series of 58 paintings that Pablo Picasso painted in 1957 by performing a comprehensive analysis, reinterpreting and recreating several times Las Meninas by Diego Vel\u00e1zquez. The suite is fully preserved at the Museu Picasso in Barcelona and is the only complete series of the artist that remains together. This is a very extensive survey work, which consists of 45 performances of the original picture, 9 scenes of a dove, 3 landscapes and a portrait of Jacqueline. Picasso himself understood this series as a whole, and as such gave them to the museum in Barcelona in May 1968, in memory of Jaume Sabart\u00e9s, who died the same year. Picasso's famous phrase said to Sabart\u00e9s in 1950: \u201c If someone want to copy Las Meninas, entirely in good faith, for example, upon reaching a certain point and if that one was me, I would say.. what if you put them a little more to the right or left? I'll try to do it my way, forgetting about Vel\u00e1zquez. The test would surely bring me to modify or change the light because of having changed the position of a character. So, little by little, that would be a detestable Meninas for a traditional painter, but would be my Meninas. \u201d \u2014Picasso, 1950"},{"label":"DBpedia:St._John_the_Baptist_(Leonardo)","descr":"St. John the Baptist is an oil painting on walnut wood by Leonardo da Vinci. Completed from 1513 to 1516, when the High Renaissance was metamorphosing into Mannerism, it is believed to be his last painting. The original size of the work was 69x57 cm. It is now exhibited at the Mus\u00e9e du Louvre in Paris, France. The piece depicts St. John the Baptist in isolation. St. John is dressed in pelts, has long curly hair, and is smiling in an enigmatic manner which is reminiscent of Leonardo's famous Mona Lisa. He holds a reed cross in his left hand while his right hand points up toward heaven (like St Anne in Leonardo's cartoon The Virgin and Child with St Anne and St John the Baptist). It is believed that the cross and wool skins were added at a later date by another painter. The pointing gesture of St. John toward the heavens suggests the importance of salvation through baptism that John the Baptist represents. The work is often quoted by later painters, especially those in the late Renaissance and Mannerist schools. The inclusion of a gesture similar to John's would increase the importance of a work with a religious conceit."},{"label":"DBpedia:Captain_George_K._H._Coussmaker","descr":"Captain George K. H. Coussmaker (1782) is an oil on canvas portrait by Joshua Reynolds. Coussmaker was born in London in 1759 to Evert and Mary Coussmaker, and entered the military in 1776. He was promoted several times but never saw active service and retired in 1795. He married Catherine Southwell in 1790 and fathered two children, George and Sophia. He died in 1801. Coussmaker sat for Reynolds 21 times and his horse 8 times between February 9 and April 16, 1782 - an exceptional number of times. Reynolds was paid 205 pounds, plus 10 guineas for the frame. The portrait remained with Coussmaker and his descendants until 1884 when it was sold to William K. Vanderbilt and bequeathed to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1920. Museum curators describe the picture as \"an exceptionally fine work ... The composition is complex and the whole vigorously painted.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:A_Lane_in_the_Public_Garden_at_Arles","descr":"A Lane in a Public Garden in Arles is an 1888 painting by Vincent van Gogh depicting a lane running through the public garden in Arles. The lane is surrounded by trees in different shades of green and yellow, as summer is being replaced by fall. The sky is blue and people are out walking on the lane enjoying the nice surroundings. A Lane in the Public Garden at Arles offers a harmonious vista where Vincent Van Gogh\u2019s exquisite command of colors allows him to blend the different shades of green and yellow with the blue of the sky and the stones of the lane."},{"label":"DBpedia:Copies_by_Vincent_van_Gogh","descr":"Copies by Vincent van Gogh, form an important group of paintings executed by Vincent van Gogh between 1887 and early 1890. While at Saint-Paul asylum in Saint-R\u00e9my-de-Provence, France where Van Gogh admitted himself, he strived to have subjects during the cold winter months. Seeking to be reinvigorated artistically, Van Gogh did more than 30 copies of works by some of his favorite artists. About twenty-one of the works were copies after, or inspired by Jean-Fran\u00e7ois Millet. Rather than replicate, Van Gogh sought to translate the subjects and composition through his perspective, color, and technique. Spiritual meaning and emotional comfort were expressed through symbolism and color. His brother Theo van Gogh (art dealer) would call the pieces in the series some of his best work."},{"label":"DBpedia:Christ_of_Saint_John_of_the_Cross","descr":"Christ of Saint John of the Cross is a painting by Salvador Dal\u00ed made in 1951. It depicts Jesus Christ on the cross in a darkened sky floating over a body of water complete with a boat and fishermen. Although it is a depiction of the crucifixion, it is devoid of nails, blood, and a crown of thorns, because, according to Dal\u00ed, he was convinced by a dream that these features would mar his depiction of Christ. Also in a dream, the importance of depicting Christ in the extreme angle evident in the painting was revealed to him."},{"label":"DBpedia:Execution_(painting)","descr":"Execution is a Chinese art painting by Beijing artist Yue Minjun. The piece was inspired by the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, although the artist stated through translation that the art should not be viewed as depicting what happened at Tiananmen Square. In 2007 it became the most expensive work sold by a Chinese contemporary artist."},{"label":"DBpedia:Chinese_Girl","descr":"The Chinese Girl (often popularly known as The Green Lady) is a 1950 painting by Vladimir Tretchikoff. It became one of the world's most popular paintings when made into prints in the 1960s and 1970s, and is one of the world's best-selling art prints. The painting is of a Chinese girl and is best known for the unusual skin tone used for her face - a blue-green colour, which gives the painting its popular name \"The Green Lady\". The painting is Tretchikoff's second variation on the theme, after the first (using a different model) was destroyed in a robbery at the artist's studio in South Africa. The original sold for almost $1.5 million (\u00a3982,050) at Bonhams auction house in London on March 20, 2013. The painting was purchased by British jeweller Laurence Graff and will go on public display in Stellenbosch, South Africa."},{"label":"DBpedia:Take_your_Son,_Sir!","descr":"Take Your Son, Sir! (1851-6) is an unfinished painting by Ford Madox Brown which depicts a woman showing her newborn son to its father. She is offering her baby towards the viewer of the painting, who is implicitly equated with the father - seen in the mirror behind, opening his arms to receive the baby. The mirror also forms a halo behind the mother's head, and the pattern on the wallpaper suggests the starry heavens. Brown's principal influence was Jan van Eyck's painting the Arnolfini Marriage Portrait, recently acquired by the National Gallery. The mirror resembles the circular mirror in van Eyck's painting, which reflects an image of the artist looking at the couple in the image. The woman is wearing crinolines, which expand to cover the whole of the lower part of the painting. Brown has left this part incomplete, roughly squaring up and sketching the dress in outline. The title is written on the unfinished dress, underneath the child at the right. Brown's own wife was pregnant whilst he was painting this picture and she gave birth to a son which they named Arthur. Arthur then died at just ten months old and it is considered Brown was unable to complete the painting through grief for his son, so he abandoned it."},{"label":"DBpedia:Boy_Leading_a_Horse","descr":"Jeune gar\u00e7on au cheval is an early painting by Pablo Picasso. An example of Picasso's Rose Period, he painted it in 1906 in Paris. The painting was first owned by Ambroise Vollard. It then passed through the hands of numerous people through the years: Gertrude & Leo Stein, ca. 1907-ca. 1913 Paul von Mendelssohn-Bartholdy, ca. 1934-1935. Mendelssohn-Bartholdy sold the work before his death from a heart attack in 1935 to the Jewish art gallery of Thannhauser. There is debate as to whether this sale was done out of duress. The family at the time had assets worth 170,000 Reichsmark, equivalent to $5 to 10 million dollars of today. Following the enactment of a treaty between Germany and the USA that clarified certain property rights of victims of Nazi persecution, descendants of von Mendelssohn-Bartholdy filed suit against the Museum of Modern Art in New York in an effort to recover the work. See description of Schoeps lawsuit below. Justin K. Thannhauser, 1935\u20131936; he sold it through Siegfried Rosengart. Albert Skira, 1936. William S. Paley, 1936-1964. Paley gifted the work to the Museum of Modern Art. Julius Schoeps, director of the Moses Mendelssohn institute for European Jewish studies on the University of Potsdam near Berlin, as speaker of the Mendelssohn-Bartholdy heirs, sued the Museum in 2007 for the painting, and Jed S. Rakoff ruled that Mendelssohn-Bartholdy had been forced to sell the painting by the Nazi Party. The Museum of Modern Art and the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation then sued the heir, Julius Schoeps. The dispute, however, ended up being settled out of court in 2009, with the museum retaining the work. In Vladimir Nabokov's novel Pale Fire, Professor Kinbote says he placed in his lodging-house \"the reproduction of a beloved early Picasso: earth boy leading raincloud horse\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:Yard_with_Lunatics","descr":"Yard with Lunatics is a small oil-on-tinplate painting completed by the Spanish artist Francisco Goya between 1793 and 1794. Goya said that the painting was informed by scenes of institutions he witnessed as a youth in Zaragoza. Yard with Lunatics was painted around the time of the French declaration of war on Spain, when Goya\u2019s deafness and fear of mental illness were developing, and exasperated by the oncoming war, and he was increasingly complaining of his health. A contemporary diagnosis read, \"the noises in his head and deafness aren\u2019t improving, yet his vision is much better and he is back in control of his balance. \" Though Goya had to that point been preoccupied with commissioned portraits of royalty and noblemen, this work is one of a dozen small-scale, dark images he produced independently. Uncommissioned, it was one of the first of Goya's mid-1790s cabinet paintings, in which his earlier search for ideal beauty gave way to an examination of the relationship between naturalism and fantasy that would preoccupy him for the rest of his career. He was undergoing a nervous breakdown and entering prolonged physical illness, and admitted that the series was created to reflect his own self-doubt, anxiety and fear that he himself was going mad. Goya wrote that the works served \"to occupy my imagination, tormented as it is by contemplation of my sufferings. \" The series, he said, consisted of pictures which \"normally find no place in commissioned works. \" To art historian Arthur Danto, Yard with Lunatics marks a point in Goya's career where he moves from \"a world in which there are no shadows to one in which there is no light\". The work is often compared to more mature but equally bleak Madhouse of 1812-19. It has been described as a \"somber vision of human bodies without human reason\", as one of Goya's \"deeply disturbing visions of sadism and suffering\", and a work that marks his progression from a commissioned portraitists to an artist that pursued only his bleak and pitiless view of humanity. Goya's symptoms may indicate a prolonged viral encephalitis or possibly a series of miniature strokes resulting from high blood pressure affecting his hearing and balance. The mixture of tinnitus, imbalance and progressive deafness is typical of M\u00e9ni\u00e8re's disease, though any latter attempts at prognosis are purely, and only, specualtive. What is known is that he lived in fear of insanity, and projected his fears and despair through his work. Set in a Lunatic asylum, Yard with Lunatics was painted at a time when such institutions were, according to art critic Robert Hughes, no more than \"holes in the social surface, small dumps into which the psychotic could be thrown without the smallest attempt to discover, classify, or treat the nature of their illness. \" Goya's yard is overwhelmingly stark, showing shackled inmates enclosed by high walls and a heavy stone arch. Inmates fight and grin idiotically or huddle in despair, all bathed in an oppressive grey and green light, guarded by a single man. The work stands as a horrifying and imaginary vision of loneliness, fear and social alienation, a departure from the rather more superficial treatment of mental illness in the works of earlier artists such as Hogarth. In a 1794 letter to his friend Bernardo de Yriarte, he wrote that the painting shows \"a yard with lunatics, and two of them fighting completely naked while their warder beats them, and others in sacks; (it is a scene I witnessed at Zaragoza)\". It is usually read as an indictment of the widespread punitive treatment of the insane, who were confined with criminals, put in iron manacles, and routinely subjected to physical punishment, in ground sealed by masonry blocks and iron gate. Here the patients are variously staring, sitting, posturing, wrestling, grimacing or disciplining themselves. The top of the canvas vanishes with sunlight, emphasizing the nightmarish scene below. Since one of the essential goals of the enlightenment was to reform the prisons and asylums, a subject found in the writings of Voltaire and others, the condemnation of brutality towards prisoners, whether criminal or insane, was a subject of many of Goya\u2019s later paintings. The painting had been absent from public view since a private sale in 1922; today it is housed in the Meadows Museum in Dallas, having been donated by Algur H. Meadows in 1967."},{"label":"DBpedia:Work_(painting)","descr":"Work (1852\u20131865) is a painting by Ford Madox Brown, which is generally considered to be his most important achievement. It attempts to portray, both literally and analytically, the totality of the Victorian social system and the transition from a rural to an urban economy. Brown began the painting in 1852 and completed it in 1865, when he set up a special exhibition to showcase it along with several of his other works. He wrote a detailed catalogue explaining the significance of the picture. The painting was commissioned by Thomas Plint, a well-known collector of Pre-Raphaelite art, who died before its completion."},{"label":"DBpedia:Adoration_of_the_Magi_(Vel%C3%A1zquez)","descr":"The Adoration of the Magi is a 1619 Baroque painting by the Spanish artist Diego Vel\u00e1zquez now held in the Museo del Prado. It shows three kings presenting gifts to the Christ child: Melchoir, who kneels in the foreground; Balthazar, who stands behind him wearing a red cape and a lace collar; and Caspar, who appears between the other two. An unidentified young man who stands behind Balthazar is looking on. Kneeling near the Virgin's left shoulder is Saint Joseph. The size and format of the painting indicate that it was made for an altarpiece."},{"label":"DBpedia:Bardi_Altarpiece","descr":"The Bardi Altarpiece (Italian: Pala di Bardi), is an Italian Mannerist painting by the Italian painter Parmigianino, dating from c. 1521 and housed in the church of Santa Maria at Bardi, Emilia-Romagna, Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:General_Johnson_Saving_a_Wounded_French_Officer_from_the_Tomahawk_of_a_North_American_Indian","descr":"General Johnson Saving a Wounded French Officer from the Tomahawk of a North American Indian is a painting by Benjamin West, completed between 1764 and 1768. It depicts a scene as observed by a native of Pennsylvania, soon after the actual events shown. It is in the collection of Derby Museum and Art Gallery."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Age_of_Innocence_(painting)","descr":"The Age of Innocence is an oil on canvas picture by Sir Joshua Reynolds, painted in either 1785 or 1788 and measuring 765 x 638 mm. The sitter is unknown, but was possibly Reynolds's great-niece Theophila Gwatkin (who was three in 1785), or Lady Anne Spencer (1773-1865), the youngest daughter of the 4th Duke of Marlborough. The picture is a character study, or, in 18th-century terms, a fancy picture, and was painted over another Reynolds work, A Strawberry Girl, perhaps because Strawberry had suffered some paint losses. Only the hands remain in their original state. Innocence itself has deteriorated since 1859. The picture was presented to the National Gallery in 1847 by Robert Vernon, and has hung in the Tate since 1951. The picture became a favourite with the public, and was copied hundreds of times."},{"label":"DBpedia:Morning_in_a_Pine_Forest","descr":"The Morning in a Pine Forest (Russian: \u0423\u0442\u0440\u043e \u0432 \u0441\u043e\u0441\u043d\u043e\u0432\u043e\u043c \u043b\u0435\u0441\u0443) is a painting by Russian artists Ivan Shishkin and Konstantin Savitsky. Savitsky has painted the bears, but the art collector Pavel Tretyakov effaced his signature, stating that \"from idea until performance, everything discloses the painting manner and creative method peculiar just to Shishkin\" so the painting is now credited solely to Shishkin. The Morning in a Pine Forest turned very popular, being reproduced on various items, including the \"Clubfooted Bear\" chocolates by Krasny Oktyabr. According to one poll, the painting is the second most popular in Russia behind Bogatyrs by Viktor Vasnetsov. Shishkin's similar paintings are the Forest in Spring (1884) and The Sestroretsk Forest (1896). It is believed that Shishkin painted the pine trees near Narva-J\u00f5esuu in Estonia, where he often liked to rest in summers."},{"label":"DBpedia:Chalk_Cliffs_on_R%C3%BCgen","descr":"Chalk Cliffs on R\u00fcgen is an oil painting of circa 1818 by the German Romantic artist Caspar David Friedrich."},{"label":"DBpedia:Bal_du_moulin_de_la_Galette","descr":"Bal du moulin de la Galette (commonly known as Dance at Le moulin de la Galette) is an 1876 painting by French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. It is housed at the Mus\u00e9e d'Orsay in Paris and is one of Impressionism's most celebrated masterpieces. The painting depicts a typical Sunday afternoon at Moulin de la Galette in the district of Montmartre in Paris. In the late 19th century, working class Parisians would dress up and spend time there dancing, drinking, and eating galettes into the evening. Like other works of Renoir's early maturity, Bal du moulin de la Galette is a typically Impressionist snapshot of real life. It shows a richness of form, a fluidity of brush stroke, and a flickering light. From 1879 to 1894 the painting was in the collection of the French painter Gustave Caillebotte; when he died it became the property of the French Republic as payment for death duties. From 1896 to 1929 the painting hung in the Mus\u00e9e du Luxembourg in Paris. From 1929 it hung in the Mus\u00e9e du Louvre until it was transferred to the Mus\u00e9e d'Orsay in 1986."},{"label":"DBpedia:Napoleon_in_the_Wilderness","descr":"Napoleon in the Wilderness in a 1941 surrealist painting by Max Ernst in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Starry_Night","descr":"The Starry Night is a painting by the Dutch post-impressionist artist Vincent van Gogh. The painting depicts the view outside his sanitarium room window at Saint-R\u00e9my-de-Provence (located in southern France) at night, although it was painted from memory during the day. It has been in the permanent collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, part of the Lillie P. Bliss Bequest, since 1941. The painting is among Van Gogh's most well known works."},{"label":"DBpedia:Naked_Dave","descr":"Naked Dave (The Naked Dave Project) refers to a series of paintings created by Laura Molina, inspired by her relationship with illustrator and Rocketeer creator, Dave Stevens. A five-month long relationship between the artists ended in early December, 1978 after she miscarried their child at 11 weeks. Molina started the series in 1993 after an attempted reconciliation initiated by Stevens failed to settle things between them. Stevens protested the use of his likeness, but Molina argued that she was protected from legal ramifications citing Polydoros v. Twentieth Century Fox Film (67 Cal. App.4th 318, 1997) in which Michael Polydoros contended that David Mickey Evans, the writer-director of the movie The Sandlot had violated his privacy by including a character based on him. The courts ruled in favor of Twentieth Century Fox, stating the film was protected free speech."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Son_of_Man","descr":"The Son of Man (French: Le fils de l'homme) is a 1964 painting by the Belgian surrealist painter Ren\u00e9 Magritte. Magritte painted it as a self-portrait. The painting consists of a man in an overcoat and a bowler hat standing in front of a short wall, beyond which is the sea and a cloudy sky. The man's face is largely obscured by a hovering green apple. However, the man's eyes can be seen peeking over the edge of the apple. Another subtle feature is that the man's left arm appears to bend backwards at the elbow. About the painting, Magritte said: At least it hides the face partly. Well, so you have the apparent face, the apple, hiding the visible but hidden, the face of the person. It's something that happens constantly. Everything we see hides another thing, we always want to see what is hidden by what we see. There is an interest in that which is hidden and which the visible does not show us. This interest can take the form of a quite intense feeling, a sort of conflict, one might say, between the visible that is hidden and the visible that is present. The Son of Man resembles The Great War on Fa\u00e7ades (La Grande Guerre Fa\u00e7ades), another Magritte painting featuring similar imagery. Both feature a person standing in front of a wall overlooking the sea. The Great War on Fa\u00e7ades, however, features a woman holding an umbrella, her face covered by a flower. There is also Man in the Bowler Hat, a similar painting where the man's face is obscured by a bird rather than an apple."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Night_of_Enitharmon's_Joy","descr":"The Night of Enitharmon's Joy, often referred as The Triple Hecate or simply Hecate, is a 1795 colour print by English artist and poet William Blake, which depicts Enitharmon, a female character in his mythology, or Hecate, a chthonic Greco-Roman goddess of magic and the underworld. The work presents a nightmarish scene with fantastic creatures. The Triple Hecate is painted with deep tones and bold masses. Blake employed a new technique whose \"effect is darker and richer than [his his] illuminated books. \" One scholar interprets his color print Hecate thus: \"She is triple, according to mythology: a girl and a boy hide their heads behind her back. Her left hand lies on a book of magic; her left foot is extended. She is attended by a thistle-eating ass, the mournful owl of false wisdom, the head of a crocodile (blood-thirsty hypocrisy), and a cat-headed bat. \" Blake often drew on Michaelangelo to create and compose his epic images, including Hecate's, according to a consensus of critics. \"Blake is indebted to Michaelangelo for many of his giant forms. \" Michaelangelo contributed many \"characters to Blake's gallery of mythic persons and heroes. \" Regarding the Hecate color print, a suggested trail may be traced. From Michaelangelo Blake copied his early sketch entitled The Reposing Traveller, which then evolved into a figure for his work (1795-1797) regarding Night Thoughts, and also into the similarly posed figure of Hecate here. The color print may also allude to the Three Fates--the Moirai of Greek mythology and the Parcae of Roman. Notwithstanding these allusions, critics point out that a contemporary trigger for Blake's inspiration probably was the return popularity of Shakespeare's play Macbeth. As offstage Hecate listens, the three witches in arranging Macbeth's doom, chant, \"Double, double, toil and trouble; Fire burn and cauldron bubble. \" Each witch in turn adds her verses, the second's being: \"Fillet of a fenny snake, In the cauldron boil and bake; Eye of newt and toe of frog, Wool of bat and tongue of dog, Adder's fork and blind-worm's sting, Lizard's leg and owlet's wing, For a charm of powerful trouble, Like a hell-broth boil and bubble. \" Hence bat, owl, snake or frog would be appropriate to The Triple Hecate. Blake printed his illuminated Europe a Prophecy in 1794. The bulk of the book, according to one scholar, \"is devoted to the night of Enitharmon's joy, when she establishes her Woman's World with its false religion of chastity and vengeance: a religion of eighteen hundread years, which is the error of official Christianity. \" In other words, it is said to represents a Feminine Will over a patriarchal Christianity. Blake's character is described as \"the Moon of love to Los's Sun\", hence its relationship with Hecate, one of the Moon Goddesses alongside Diana\/Artemis and Selene. She is also invoked in Hamlet, in the play within the play method, by the (actor) Lucianus: \"With Hecate's ban thrice blasted, thrice infected,\\Thy natural magic and dire property [... ... ]\" but in Europe: a Prophecy Enitharmon's night is presented in this way: \"Now comes the night of Enitharmon's joy! Who shall I call? Who shall I send? That Woman, lovely Woman! may have dominion Arise O Rintrah thee I call! & Palamabron thee. Go! tell the human race that Womans love is Sin! That an Eternal life awaits the worms of sixty winters In an allegorical abode where existence hath never come: Forbid all Joy, & from her childhood shall the little female Spread nets in every secret path. \" There are other literary sources for the myth of Hecate, such as Metamorphoses by Ovid, VI 140, VII 74, 94, 174, 177, 194, 241, XIV 44, 405, and Blake himself: \"The Gods all Serve her at her will; so great her Power is, like fabled Hecate, she doth bind them to her law.\". But not only in his poetry The Triple Hecate makes a connection: it is seen as an opposition to his painting Pity, circa 1795, where the piety provides a \"possibility of salvation\" in the fallen world. Here, both witchcraft and curse, associated with Hecate, are factors to human perdition. Geoffrey Keynes wrote about it: \"Hecate, an infernal Trinity, crouches in the centre. An evil winged spectre hovers over her. On her left an ass is grazing on rank vegetation, while an owl and a great toad watch from between rocks. The theme of the Moon Goddess is derived from Shakespeare's Midsummer Night's Dream. \" The print was made in a time in which Shakespeare's Macbeth had a revival, being performed nine times. Like other works by Blake, such as The Ghost of a Flea, the picture is part of W. Graham Robertson's private collection and was presented to the Tate Gallery by himself in 1939. It is considered to be one of the most brilliant and significant pictures of William Blake."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Mysteries_of_the_Horizon","descr":"The Mysteries of the Horizon (in French, Les myst\u00e8res de l'horizon) (1955) is an oil on canvas painting by the Belgian surrealist Ren\u00e9 Magritte. The painting depicts three seemingly identical men in bowler hats. They are in an outdoor setting at twilight. Though they appear to be sharing the same space each one also seems to exist in a separate reality. Each is facing a different direction. In the sky above each figure is a separate crescent moon. Men in bowler hats appear frequently in Magritte's work starting with his 1926 painting The Musings of a Solitary Walker. They are represented as having undefined or identical personalities."},{"label":"DBpedia:Elective_Affinities_(painting)","descr":"Elective Affinities (French: Les affinit\u00e9s \u00e9lectives) is a 1933 painting by the Belgian surrealist Ren\u00e9 Magritte. The title is taken from the Johann Wolfgang von Goethe book Elective Affinities. Magritte had the following to say about this work: One night, I woke up in a room in which a cage with a bird sleeping in it had been placed. A magnificent error caused me to see an egg in the cage, instead of the vanished bird. I then grasped a new and astonishing poetic secret, for the shock which I experienced had been provoked precisely by the affinity of two objects -- the cage and the egg -- to each other, whereas previously this shock had been caused by my bringing together two objects that were unrelated."},{"label":"DBpedia:Assumption_of_the_Virgin_(Andrea_del_Castagno)","descr":"The Assumption of the Virgin between St. Miniato and St. Julian is a painting by the Italian early Renaissance master Andrea del Castagno, executed around 1449-1450. It is now housed in the Gem\u00e4ldegalerie of Berlin."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Third-Class_Carriage","descr":"The Third-Class Carriage is a c. 1862-1864 oil on canvas painting by Honor\u00e9 Daumier, in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. A similar painting by Daumier with the same title is in the National Gallery of Canada. Daumier had drawn and painted images of rail travel since the 1840s. This version of The Third-Class Carriage appears to be closely related to an 1864 watercolor now in the Walters Art Museum. The painting is unfinished, and is squared for transfer. The Third-Class Carriage evidences Daumier's interest, as also seen in his graphic works, in the lives of working-class Parisians. Third-class railway carriages were cramped, dirty, open compartments with hard benches, filled with those who could not afford second or first-class tickets. In the bench facing the viewer are seated, from left, a woman holding her baby, an older woman with her hands clasped atop a basket, and a young boy asleep. Seated behind them are anonymous rows of women and men. The painting entered the Metropolitan Museum in 1929 as part of the H. O. Havemeyer bequest."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Adoration_of_the_Golden_Calf","descr":"For the Biblical event itself, see golden calf. The Adoration of the Golden Calf 300px Artist Nicolas Poussin Year 1633-1634 Type Oil on canvas Dimensions 154\u00a0cm \u00d7\u00a0214\u00a0cm Location National Gallery, London The Adoration of the Golden Calf is a painting by Nicolas Poussin, produced between 1633 and 1634. It depicts the adoration of the golden calf by the Israelites, from chapter 32 of the book of Exodus. It was made as part of a pair of paintings (the other being The Crossing of the Red Sea) commissioned by Amadeo dal Pozzo, Marchese di Voghera of Turin, a cousin to Cassiano dal Pozzo, Poussin's main sponsor in Rome. By 1685 the pair had passed to the Chevalier de Lorraine and in 1710 they were bought by Benigne de Ragois de Bretonvillers. In 1741 they were bought from Samuel by Sir Jacob Bouverie, whose son William became the first Earl of Radnor. The Earls of Radnor owned the pair from then until 1945, when it was split for the first time and The Adoration of the Golden Calf bought by the National Gallery in London for \u00a310,000, half of which was contributed by the Art Fund. (The Crossing of the Red Sea was bought in the same 1945 sale by the National Gallery of Victoria. ) It now hangs in Room 19 of the National Gallery, where it and Poussin's The Adoration of the Shepherds were vandalised with red spray paint on 17 July 2011."},{"label":"DBpedia:Head_of_a_Woman_(Bosch)","descr":"Head of a Woman is a fragment of a Hieronymus Bosch painting. It is currently in the Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam, Netherlands. The fragment is only 13\u00a0cm tall and 5\u00a0cm wide."},{"label":"DBpedia:A_Burial_At_Ornans","descr":"A Burial At Ornans (French: Un enterrement \u00e0 Ornans, also known as A Funeral At Ornans) is a painting of 1849\u201350 by Gustave Courbet, and one of the major turning points of 19th-century French art. The painting records the funeral in September 1848 of his great-uncle in the painter's birthplace, the small town of Ornans. It treats an ordinary provincial funeral with unflattering realism, and on the giant scale traditionally reserved for the heroic or religious scenes of history painting. Its exhibition at the 1850\u201351 Paris Salon created an \"explosive reaction\" and brought Courbet instant fame. It is currently displayed at the Mus\u00e9e d'Orsay in Paris, France. The Salon found Courbet triumphant with The Stone Breakers, the Peasants of Flagey, and A Burial at Ornans. People who had attended the funeral were used as models for the painting. Previously, models had been used as actors in historical narratives; here Courbet said that he \"painted the very people who had been present at the interment, all the townspeople\". The result is a realistic presentation of them, and of life, in Ornans. The painting, which drew both praise and fierce denunciations from critics and the public, is an enormous work, measuring 10 by 22 feet (3.1 by 6.6 metres), depicting a prosaic ritual on a scale which previously would have been reserved for a work of history painting. According to art historian Sarah Faunce, \"In Paris the Burial was judged as a work that had thrust itself into the grand tradition of history painting, like an upstart in dirty boots crashing a genteel party, and in terms of that tradition it was of course found wanting. \" Then too, the painting lacks the sentimental rhetoric that was expected in a genre work: Courbet's mourners make no theatrical gestures of grief, and their faces seem more caricatured than ennobled. The critics accused Courbet of a deliberate pursuit of ugliness. Eventually the public grew more interested in the new Realist approach, and the lavish, decadent fantasy of Romanticism lost popularity. The artist well understood the importance of this painting; Courbet said: \"The Burial at Ornans was in reality the burial of Romanticism. \" It might also be said to be the burial of the hierarchy of genres which had dominated French art since the 17th century."},{"label":"DBpedia:Freedom_from_Want_(painting)","descr":"Freedom from Want or The Thanksgiving Picture is one of Four Freedoms paintings by Norman Rockwell that were inspired by United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt in the State of the Union Address, known as Four Freedoms, he delivered to the 77th United States Congress on January 6, 1941. The other paintings in this series were Freedom of Speech, Freedom from Fear, and Freedom of Worship. Freedom from Want was published in the March 6, 1943, issue of The Saturday Evening Post with a matching essay by Carlos Bulosan as part of the Four Freedoms series. The image was included as the cover image of the 1946 book Norman Rockwell, Illustrator, written when Rockwell was \"at the height of his fame as America's most popular illustrator. \" Rockwell claims to have painted the turkey on Thanksgiving, and unlike Freedom of Speech and Freedom of Worship, this painting was not difficult to execute."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Adoration_of_the_Kings_(Bruegel)","descr":"The Adoration of the Kings is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1564. It is currently held and exhibited at the National Gallery, London."},{"label":"DBpedia:Columbus_Breaking_the_Egg","descr":"Columbus Breaking the Egg is a 1752 engraving by English artist William Hogarth. Issued as the subscription ticket for his treatise on art, The Analysis of Beauty, it depicts an apocryphal tale concerning Christopher Columbus's response to detractors of his discovery of the New World. Hogarth uses the story as a parallel to what he considered his own discoveries in art."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Embarkation_of_the_Queen_of_Sheba","descr":"Seaport with the Embarkation of the Queen of Sheba is an oil painting by Claude Lorrain (also known as Claude Gell\u00e9e), in the National Gallery, London, signed and dated 1648. The large oil on canvas painting was commissioned by Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Maurice de La Tour d'Auvergne, Duc de Bouillon, general of the Papal army, together with Claude's Landscape with the Marriage of Isaac and Rebecca. It depicts the departure of the Queen of Sheba to visit to King Solomon in Jerusalem, described in the tenth chapter of the First Book of Kings. A more usual subject would be their meeting; this is one of many scenes of journeying painted by Claude. The Queen is departing from a city with classical buildings, with the early morning sun lighting the sea, as vessels are loaded. The composition draws the eye to a group of people on the steps to the right, at the intersection of a line of perspective (the steps) and a strong vertical (the left column of the building's portico). The Queen wears a pink tunic, royal blue cloak, and golden crown, and is about to board a waiting launch to take her to her ship - perhaps the ship partially concealed by the pillars to the left, or the one further out to sea, over the picture's vanishing point. The painting was one of the first works to be acquired by the National Gallery in 1824, being one of five works by Claude bought from the collection of John Julius Angerstein. It has the catalogue number NG14. This and similar works by Claude work inspired Turner to paint Dido Building Carthage and The Decline of the Carthaginian Empire, which Turner left to the nation as part of the Turner Bequest, on condition that they were hung besides Claude's pair of works. tt tttClaude Lorrain 020. jpg ttt Claude's Landscape with the Marriage of Isaac and Rebecca ttt tt tt tttTurner Dido Building Carthage. jpg ttt Turner's Dido Building Carthage ttt tt tt tttJoseph Mallord William Turner - The Decline of the Carthaginian Empire - WGA23169. jpg ttt Turner's The Decline of the Carthaginian Empire"},{"label":"DBpedia:Madonna_of_the_Quail","descr":"The Madonna of the Quail is a Gothic painting generally attributed to Pisanello. Dating to c. 1420, it is currently housed in the Castelvecchio Museum of Verona, northern Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:Geumgang_jeondo","descr":"Geumgang jeondo (\uae08\uac15\uc804\ub3c4 \u91d1\u525b\u5168\u5716) is a famous landscape painted by Jeong Seon during the reign of King Yeongjo. The title literally means \"General view of Mt. Geumgangsan\" or The Diamond Mountains). It was classified as the 217th National Treasure of South Korea on August 6, 1984. The painting is currently held and managed by the Ho-Am Art Museum in Yongin, Gyeonggi Province and is owned by Lee Kun-hee. While many contemporaneous painters imitated the latest art trends from China, Jeong Seon ignored these to create unique themes based on Korean landscapes. His catalogue of paintings of Geumgansan made him famous and the preeminent painter of his time at the age of 37. He eventually painted around 100 images of the mountains which still exist to this day. The artist\u2019s love of the mountains influenced other artists to depict the Diamond Mountains and even encouraged mapmakers to make maps of the area. Although Jeong Seon made many paintings of Mt. Geumgangsan, this painting is the largest and considered his best. Like many of his paintings, Jeong Seon painted this landscape while actually viewing the mountains. The painting is 130.7 centimeters in height and 94.1 centimeters in width. It is painted with India ink. The painting is of Naegeumgang, the Inner Mt. Geumgangsan. The painting depicts a total of twelve thousand peaks. The highest peak, Birobong, lies in the background and water flows from it toward a valley called Manpokdong which is divided from the left and right. The high sharp peaks are depicted by the artist with lines painted up and down while the artist used a dotting brush method to depict the earthen peaks, making them appear relatively soft and lush. This composition harmonizes the contrasting sharp edges of the rocky peaks with the softer earthen peaks. The painter included the title of the painting, some comments, and his pen name, Gyeomjae, in the upper right hand corner. The inscription also dates the painting to 1734 when Jeong Seon was 59 years old. The artist\u2019s comments reads: Even if you visit the mountain yourself and tread on its every nook and cranny, how can your joy be compared with what you feel upon viewing this picture from your bedside?"},{"label":"DBpedia:Dora_Maar_au_Chat","descr":"Dora Maar au Chat (Dora Maar with Cat) is a 1941 painting by Pablo Picasso. It depicts Dora Maar, the painter's lover, seated on a chair with a small cat perched on her shoulders. This work is one of the world's most expensive paintings."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Last_Day_of_Pompeii","descr":"For other uses, see The Last Days of Pompeii (disambiguation). The Last Day of Pompeii 300px Artist Karl Briullov Year 1830-1833 Type Oil-on-canvas Dimensions 465.5\u00a0cm \u00d7\u00a0651\u00a0cm Location State Russian Museum, St. Petersburg The Last Day of Pompeii is a large canvas painted by Russian artist Karl Briullov in 1830-33. Briullov visited the site of Pompeii in 1828, making numerous sketches depicting the AD 79 Vesuvius eruption. The completed canvas was exhibited in Rome to rapturous reviews of critics and thereafter transported to Paris to be displayed in the Louvre. The first Russian artwork to cause such an interest abroad, it gave birth to an anthologic poem by Alexander Pushkin, and inspired the hugely successful novel The Last Days of Pompeii by Edward Bulwer-Lytton, who saw it in Rome. Another British author, Sir Walter Scott declared that it was not an ordinary painting but an epic in colours. The topic is classical, but Briullov's dramatic treatment and generous use of chiaroscuro render it farther advanced from the neoclassical style. In fact, The Last Day of Pompeii exemplifies many of the characteristics of Romanticism as it manifests itself in Russian art, including drama, realism tempered with idealism, increased interest in nature, and a zealous fondness for historical subjects. The commissioner, Prince Anatole Demidov, donated the painting to Nicholas I of Russia who displayed it at the Imperial Academy of Arts for the instruction of young painters. To present the painting to a wider audience the canvas was transferred to the Russian Museum for the museum's opening in 1895. Briullov included a self portrait in the upper left corner of the painting, under the steeple, one of the several foci in the picture, but not easy to identify."},{"label":"DBpedia:Lady_with_an_Ermine","descr":"Lady with an Ermine is a painting by Leonardo da Vinci, from around 1489\u20131490. The subject of the portrait is identified as Cecilia Gallerani, and was probably painted at a time when she was the mistress of Ludovico Sforza, Duke of Milan, and Leonardo was in the service of the Duke. The painting is one of only four female portraits painted by Leonardo, the others being the Mona Lisa, the portrait of Ginevra de' Benci and La belle ferronni\u00e8re. It is currently displayed in the Wawel Castle, Krak\u00f3w, Poland. When exhibited in The Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, it was described as \"signal[ling ling] a breakthrough in the art of psychological portraiture\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Angel_Fern%C3%A1ndez_de_Soto","descr":"Portrait of Angel Fern\u00e1ndez de Soto (also known as The Absinthe Drinker) (French: Portrait bleu de Angel Fern\u00e1ndez de Soto) is a portrait by Spanish artist Pablo Picasso completed in 1903 during his Blue Period. The oil painting depicts Picasso's friend and fellow painter, Angel Fernandez de Soto, in a bar with a glass of absinthe. The painting was previously owned by musical theatre composer Andrew Lloyd Webber. On 23 June 2010, the painting was sold at auction for \u00a334.7 million."},{"label":"DBpedia:Asni%C3%A8res_(Van_Gogh_series)","descr":"Asni\u00e8res (paintings), now named Asni\u00e8res-sur-Seine, is the subject and location of paintings that Vincent van Gogh made in 1887. The works, which include parks, restaurants, riverside settings and factories, mark a break-through in Van Gogh's artistic development. In Holland Van Gogh was influenced by great Dutch masters as well as Anton Mauve a Dutch realist painter who was a leading member of the Hague School. Mauve was a significant early influence on his cousin-in-law Vincent van Gogh. In Paris Van Gogh was exposed to and influenced by Impressionism, Symbolism, Pointillism, and Japanese woodblock print genres. For Van Gogh's first twelve months in Paris he absorbed a lot of information about modern art from the best of the avant-garde artists of the time, but in practice his work in 1886 and early 1887 varied little from his paintings in Holland. The spring of 1887 Van Gogh stayed with \u00c9mile Bernard and his parents in Asni\u00e8res and the budding spring seemed to trigger an awakening within Van Gogh where he experimented with the genres to develop his personal style. In a country setting, undergoing industrialization, Van Gogh was able to depict his reverence for rural life and express concern about encroachment of industrialization. With new techniques, Van Gogh produced paintings evoked tenderness of couples taking a walk in the park or social commentary about the ways in which factories affected country life."},{"label":"DBpedia:Max_Schmitt_in_a_Single_Scull","descr":"Max Schmitt in a Single Scull (also known as The Champion Single Sculls or The Champion, Single Sculls) is an 1871 painting by Thomas Eakins in the permanent collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Set on the Schuylkill River in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, it celebrates the victory of Eakins's friend Max Schmitt in the October 5, 1870, single sculls competition."},{"label":"DBpedia:A_holiday_at_Mentone","descr":"A holiday at Mentone is an 1888 painting by the Australian artist Charles Conder. The painting depicts a beach in the Melbourne suburb of Mentone on a bright and sunny day. Conder's depiction of people engaged in seaside activities and the brilliant noonday sunshine mark the painting as distinctively Australian in character. The painting was first exhibited at Victorian Artists' Society Spring exhibition in November 1888, one month after Conder, aged only 20, arrived in Melbourne from Sydney. Conder had met Tom Roberts in Sydney the previous year and again at Easter 1888, where the pair had painted together at Coogee Beach. On arrival in Melbourne, Conder initially based himself at Roberts' Grosvenor Chambers studio and A Holiday at Mentone was Conder's first Melbourne painting. The work shows evidence of being influenced by Japanese art while a similar bridge motif was commonly used by the influential American painter James McNeil Whistler. One of Arthur Streeton's descendents suggested that Roberts is the figure in the grey suit on the pier and Streeton is the man lying down on the beach. Perhaps Conder's best known painting, A holiday at Mentone has been described as a \"critically acclaimed masterpiece of the Australian Impressionist style of painting\" and a \"singularly Australian work\". Terence Lane, senior curator of Australian Art at the National Gallery of Victoria described the painting's staging as \"stilted, almost surreal\" but the composition as \"splendidly abstract and the sunshine brilliantly Australian\". The painting is now part of the collection of the Art Gallery of South Australia."},{"label":"DBpedia:Down_on_His_Luck","descr":"Down on His Luck is an 1889 painting by Frederick McCubbin. It depicts a seemingly disheartened swagman, sitting by a campfire sadly brooding over his misfortune. According to an 1889 review, \"The face tells of hardships, keen and blighting in their influence, but there is a nonchalant and slightly cynical expression, which proclaims the absence of all self-pity. \" The background is a forest glade painted in subdued tones. The artist's model was Louis Abrahams, an unsuccessful gold prospector who was a friend of the artist. The scene was staged near the Box Hill artists' camp in Victoria, but it is thought that McCubbin would have made additional studies of Abrahams under studio conditions. The painting was owned by William Fergusson until 1896, when it was purchased by the Art Gallery of Western Australia in Perth."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Slave_Market","descr":"The Slave Market is a painting of about 1882 by the 19th century French artist Gustave Boulanger, who specialized in classical and Orientalist genre scenes. It depicts an Ancient Roman slave auction. It shows the marketing of seven young people, ranging in age from children to young adults, as slaves. Both male slaves, as well as three of the female slaves, bear a similarity in appearance perhaps suggesting that they are members of a family forced into slavery by economic conditions. All are wearing tags to indicate their availability as slaves. The taller, standing, young woman is wearing a translucent garment which clearly shows her breasts and pubic hair\u2014she is trying to shield her eyes, perhaps because her potential buyers include former friends and neighbors, who are probably seeing her nude for the first time. The auctioneer eats his lunch with a very casual attitude. From a common type of Salon academic art of the period, it depicts an eroticized scene clad as a history painting, as was customary at the time in Paris. Boulanger had visited Italy, Greece, and North Africa, and the painting reflects his attention to culturally correct details and skill in rendering the female form."},{"label":"DBpedia:Hogarth_Painting_the_Comic_Muse","descr":"Hogarth Painting the Comic Muse (originally known as The Artist Painting the Comic Muse) is a painting in the National Portrait Gallery, London by the British artist William Hogarth. It was painted in approximately 1757 and published as a print in etching and engraving in 1758, with its final and sixth state in 1764. Hogarth used this particular self-portrait as the frontispiece of his collected engravings, published in 1764. The painting depicts Hogarth himself painting the Muse of Comedy, which represented artistic inspiration. Hogarth's decision to paint this particular figure may relate to his artistic motto: \"my picture was my stage and men and women my actors\", as the Comic Muse was said to provide inspiration for playwrights. Seated in front of his easel, palette in hand, Hogarth eagerly works at his painting; Hogarth expressly wanted a self-portrait in which he was depicted in the middle of painting a piece, rather than in a static pose. Leaning against the right leg of the easel is Hogarth's The Analysis of Beauty, a text which was written to complement this particular piece. X-ray analysis shows that the painting originally had a small dog relieving himself on a pile of old master paintings. The print of Hogarth Painting the Comic Muse went through several alterations mostly relating to the inscription at the bottom of the page. In the second state, the inscription read: \"W Hogarth Sergeant Painter to His Majesty. The Face Engrav'd by W Hogarth and Publish'd as the Act directs\". The third state omits \"and\", while adding \"March 29, 1758\" to the end. The fourth state omits \"The Face Engrav'd by W Hogarth\". In the fifth state, \"Sergeant Painter\" is scratched out, while changes have now also been made to the engraving itself; the Muse's face is now marked with black and on the pillar she stands beside is inscribed \"Comedy 1764\". The, which is depicted on the right, has nothing inscribed on it but \"William Hogarth, 1764\" on the bottom. Through this engraving, the early Georgian elbow chair in which Hogarth is shown sitting gave rise in the late nineteenth century to the collectors' and dealers' designation of \"Hogarth chair\" for similar bended-back elbow chairs with vase-shaped splats, slip seats (upholstered over a drop-in frame) and cabriole legs on pad feet. Such chairs from the American colonies are designated \"Queen Anne chairs\", perpetuating an early error in dating them."},{"label":"DBpedia:Cromwell,_Protector_of_the_Vaudois","descr":"Cromwell, Protector of the Vaudois (1877) is a painting by Ford Madox Brown which depicts Oliver Cromwell in conversation with John Milton dictating a letter to Andrew Marvell protesting at the Piedmont Easter massacre (1655), an attack on the Vaudois (Waldenses), a persecuted Protestant sect in Piedmont, northern Italy. It was Brown's second Cromwell painting, following Cromwell on his Farm (1875)."},{"label":"DBpedia:Tiger_in_a_Tropical_Storm","descr":"Tiger in a Tropical Storm or Surprised! (French Tigre dans une temp\u00eate tropicale or Surpris!) is an 1891 oil-on-canvas painting by Henri Rousseau. It was the first of the jungle paintings for which the artist is chiefly known. It shows a tiger, illuminated by a flash of lightning, preparing to pounce on its prey in the midst of a raging gale. Unable to have a painting accepted by the jury of the Acad\u00e9mie de peinture et de sculpture, Rousseau exhibited Tiger in a Tropical Storm in 1891 under the title Surpris!, at the Salon des Ind\u00e9pendants which was unjuried and open to all artists. The painting received mixed reviews. Rousseau had been a late developer: his first known work, Landscape with a Windmill, was not produced until he was 35, and his work is marked by a na\u00efvet\u00e9 of composition that belies its technical complexity. Most critics mocked Rousseau's work as childish, but F\u00e9lix Vallotton, a young Swiss painter who was later to be an important figure in the development of the modern woodcut, said of it: His tiger surprising its prey is a 'must-see'; it's the alpha and omega of painting and so disconcerting that, before so much competency and childish na\u00efvet\u00e9, the most deeply rooted convictions are held up and questioned. Rousseau's tiger is derived from a motif found in the drawings and paintings of Eug\u00e8ne Delacroix. It was claimed, either by Rousseau himself or by his friends and admirers, that he had experienced life in the jungle during his time in Mexico in 1860, where he had served as a regimental bandsman. In fact he never left France, and it is thought that his inspiration came from the botanical gardens of Paris, such as the Jardin des Plantes (which included zoological galleries with taxidermy specimens of exotic animals), and from prints and books. The fin de si\u00e8cle French populace was captivated by exotic and dangerous subjects, such as the perceived savagery of animals and peoples of distant lands (Morris & Green, 49\u201360). Tigers on the prowl had been the subject of an exhibition at the 1885 \u00c9cole des Beaux-Arts. Emmanuel Fr\u00e9miet's famous sculpture of 1887 depicting a gorilla carrying a woman exuded more savagery than anything in Rousseau's canvases, yet was found acceptable as art; Rosseau's poor immediate reception therefore seems the result of his style and not his subject matter (Morris & Green, 143). The tiger's prey is beyond the edge of the canvas, so is it left to the imagination of the viewer to decide what the outcome will be, although Rousseau's original title Surprised! suggests the tiger has the upper hand. Rousseau later stated that the tiger was about to pounce on a group of explorers. Despite their apparent simplicity, Rousseau's jungle paintings were built up meticulously in layers, using a large number of green shades to capture the lush exuberance of the jungle. He also devised his own method for depicting the lashing rain by trailing strands of silver paint diagonally across the canvas, a technique inspired by the satin-like finishes of the paintings of William-Adolphe Bouguereau. Although Tiger in a Tropical Storm brought him his first recognition, and he continued to exhibit his work annually at the Salon des Ind\u00e9pendants, Rousseau did not return to the jungle theme for another seven years, with the exhibition of Struggle for Life (now lost) at the 1898 Salon. Responses to his work were little changed; following this exhibition, one critic wrote, \"Rousseau continues to express his visions on canvas in implausible jungles... grown from the depths of a lake of absinthe, he shows us the bloody battles of animals escaped from the wooden-horse-maker\" (Morris & Green, 142). Another five years passed before the next jungle scene, Scouts Attacked by a Tiger (1904). The tiger appears in at least three more of his paintings: Tiger Hunt (c. 1895), in which humans are the predators; Jungle with Buffalo Attacked by a Tiger (1908); and Fight Between a Tiger and a Buffalo (1908). His work continued to be derided by the critics up to and after his death in 1910, but he won a following among his contemporaries: Picasso, Matisse, and Toulouse-Lautrec were all admirers of his work. Around 1908, the art dealer Ambroise Vollard purchased Surprised! and two other works from Rousseau, who had offered them at a rate considerably higher than the 190 francs he finally received. The painting was later purchased by the National Gallery, London in 1972 with a contribution from the billionaire philanthropist Walter H. Annenberg."},{"label":"DBpedia:Contarini_Madonna","descr":"The Contarini Madonna is an oil painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, dating from c. 1475-1480 now in the Accademia Gallery in Venice."},{"label":"DBpedia:A_Dance_to_the_Music_of_Time_(painting)","descr":"A Dance to the Music of Time is a painting by Nicolas Poussin in The Wallace Collection in London. It was painted between 1634 and 1636 as a commission for Giulio Rospigliosi, who according to Gian Pietro Bellori dictated its detailed iconography. It is best known for giving its name to the novel cycle of the same name, though this title is first seen in a Wallace Collection catalogue of 1913, before which it was given more prosaic titles referring to the Four Seasons. In the 1845 sale it was called La Danse des Saisons, ou l'Image de la vie humaine. It passed from the Rospigliosi family to the Fesch collection in 1806, when it was taken to France for a period, and was bought along with several other paintings by Richard Seymour-Conway, 4th Marquess of Hertford in the great Fesch sale in Rome in 1845, passing to his son Sir Richard Wallace."},{"label":"DBpedia:Bailed_Up","descr":"Bailed Up is a 1895 painting by Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting depicts a stage coach being held up by bushrangers in an isolated, forested section of a back road. The painting is part of the collection of the Art Gallery of New South Wales. and has been described by the former Senior Curator as \"the greatest Australian landscape ever painted\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Fighting_Temeraire","descr":"The Fighting Temeraire tugged to her last berth to be broken up is an oil painting executed in 1839 by the English artist J. M. W. Turner. It depicts one of the last second-rate ships of the line which played a distinguished role in the Battle of Trafalgar in 1805, the 98-gun ship HMS Temeraire, being towed towards its final berth in Rotherhithe south east London in 1838 to be broken up for scrap. The painting hangs in the National Gallery, London, having been bequeathed to the nation by the artist in 1851. Sir Henry Newbolt wrote a ballad titled The Fighting Temeraire, referencing the scenario depicted: \"And she's fading down the river, But in England's song for ever, She's the Fighting T\u00e9m\u00e9raire. \" Turner himself presented the painting for display in 1839 accompanied by an altered excerpt from Thomas Campbell's poem Ye Mariners of England, reading: \"The flag which braved the battle and the breeze, \"No longer owns her.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Fur_Traders_Descending_the_Missouri","descr":"Fur Traders Descending the Missouri is an 1845 painting by George Caleb Bingham. Bingham brought the painting to St. Louis, Missouri on June 4, 1845, along with several other pieces of artwork. One of Bingham's most famous paintings, this work is owned by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. Painted around 1845 in the style called luminism by some historians of American art, it was originally entitled, French-Trader, Half-breed Son. The American Art Union thought the title potentially controversial and renamed it when it was first exhibited. It reflected the reality of fur traders' common marriages with Native American women; in Canada the M\u00e9tis ethnic group formed as a result. The painting is haunting for its evocation of an era in American history-\u2014note, in particular, the liberty cap worn by the older man. The animal in the boat is widely accepted as a bear cub and not a cat."},{"label":"DBpedia:Madonna_Willys","descr":"Virgin with the Standing Child, Embracing his Mother, also known as Madonna Willys is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini. It is currently housed at the S\u00e3o Paulo Museum of Art in S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil."},{"label":"DBpedia:Surrender_of_Lord_Cornwallis","descr":"The Surrender of Lord Cornwallis is an oil painting by John Trumbull. The painting was completed in 1820, and hangs in the rotunda of the United States Capitol in Washington, D. C. The painting depicts the surrender of British Major General Charles, Earl Cornwallis at Yorktown, Virginia on October 19, 1781, ending the Siege of Yorktown, and virtually guaranteeing American independence. Included in the depiction are many leaders of the American troops that took part in the siege."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Big_Picture_(painting)","descr":"The Opening of the First Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia by H.R.H. The Duke of Cornwall and York (later H.M. King George V), May\u00a09, 1901, more commonly known in Australia as The Big Picture, is a 1903 painting by the Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting, measuring 304.5 by 509.2 centimetres (\u00a0in \u00d7\u00a0\u00a0in), depicts the opening of the first Parliament of Australia at the Royal Exhibition Building in Melbourne on 9 May 1901. The painting is part of the Royal Collection but has been on permanent loan to the Parliament of Australia since 1957. The work, currently on display in Parliament House, Canberra, has been described as \"undoubtedly the principal work of art recording Australia's Parliamentary History.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Federico_da_Montefeltro_with_His_Son_Guidobaldo","descr":"The Portrait of Federico da Montefeltro and His Son Guidobaldo is a painting by Spanish Renaissance artist Pedro Berruguete, dating from c. 1475 and housed in the Galleria nazionale delle Marche in Urbino, Italy. It is one of the main works executed by the Spanish painter at the court of condottiero and Duke of Urbino Federico III da Montefeltro, where he had been called to in 1474 together with another painter of the Flemish school, Justus van Gent."},{"label":"DBpedia:Game_of_Bowls","descr":"Game of Bowls is a 1908 painting by the french artist Henri Matisse. The painting shows three young men, probably Matisse's sons and nephew, playing a game of Boules. Matisse sees the game as a manifestation of man's creativity, and an instrument to use in understanding the codes of life. The painting is part of Matisse's series on man's \"Golden Age\" and was part of Sergei Shchukin's collection before the October Revolution of 1917. It is now in the collection of The Hermitage, St. Petersburg, Russia."},{"label":"DBpedia:Le_rideau_jaune","descr":"Le rideau jaune is a painting by Henri Matisse painted in 1915. Its size is 57\u00bd \u00d7 38\u215b\" (146 \u00d7 97\u00a0cm). It is currently in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art, New York. It was donated to them as a gift of Jo Carole and Ronald S. Lauder, Nelson Rockefeller Bequest, gift of Mr. and Mrs. William H. Weintraub, and Mary Sisler Bequest, all by exchange."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Sermon_of_St._Stephen_(Carpaccio)","descr":"The Sermon of Saint Stephen is an oil-on-canvas by Italian artist of the Venetian school Vittore Carpaccio, painted in 1514. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Gilded_Cage","descr":"The Gilded Cage is an oil painting by Evelyn De Morgan, with apparent stylistic influences of spatial representation from Surrealist modes of thought, her final work before her death in 1919. It is essentially an allegory for female hypnotic delirium. In this painting, a woman \"looks out\" from what seems to be a window that may, in fact, be a scene from a mural painting within the greater composition with her hand stretched out and up in a gesture of yearning. She is looking at what may be compared to a group of gypsy figures, dancing under the open sky. The principal figure among the travelling group is a woman who dances while holding her baby close to her, thus otherwise suggesting the scene is representional for an altered-state vision of maternal duty. Soaring free about the dancing group is a bird, which contrasts sharply to the captive bird in the gilded cage that hangs beside the woman's older husband. The husband seems distraught at his wife's deteriorated - or \"released\" - state of mind."},{"label":"DBpedia:Death_of_the_Virgin_(Caravaggio)","descr":"The Death of the Virgin (1606) is a painting completed by the Italian Baroque master Caravaggio. It is a near contemporary with Caravaggio's Madonna with Saint Anne now at the Galleria Borghese."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Lady_with_a_Fan_(Vel%C3%A1zquez)","descr":"The Lady with a Fan is an oil painting of a woman wearing a black lace veil on her head and a dark dress with a low-cut bodice, by the Spanish court painter Diego Vel\u00e1zquez. On the basis of its place in Vel\u00e1zquez's stylistic development, the portrait is thought to have been painted between 1638 and 1639. It is now in the Wallace Collection in London."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Last_Judgment_(Michelangelo)","descr":"The Last Judgment is a canonical fresco by the Italian Renaissance master Michelangelo executed on the altar wall of the Sistine Chapel in Vatican City. The work took four years to complete and was done between 1536 and 1541 (preparation of the altar wall began in 1535. ) Michelangelo began working on it some twenty years after having finished the Sistine Chapel ceiling."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Triumph_of_Bacchus","descr":"The Triumph of Bacchus (Greek title is \u039f \u0398\u03c1\u03af\u03b1\u03bc\u03b2\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u0392\u03ac\u03ba\u03c7\u03bf\u03c5) is a 1629 painting by Diego Vel\u00e1zquez, now in the Museo del Prado, in Madrid. The painting shows Bacchus surrounded by drunks. It is popularly known as Los borrachos or The Drunks. Vel\u00e1zquez painted it after arriving in Madrid from Seville, between 1626 and 1628, just before his travel to Italy. In Madrid, Vel\u00e1zquez could contemplate the king's collection of Italian paintings and was impressed by the nudity paintings as well by the treatment of the mythological theme. The work was painted for Philip IV and Vel\u00e1zquez was paid 100 ducats."},{"label":"DBpedia:Chichester_Canal_(painting)","descr":"Chichester Canal is a painting by the English Romantic landscape painter, watercolourist and printmaker J. M. W. Turner. It was painted in 1828. The painting was commissioned by George Wyndham, 3rd Earl of Egremont."},{"label":"DBpedia:Adoration_of_the_Name_of_God","descr":"The Adoration of the Name of God (Spanish: Adoraci\u00f3n del nombre de Dios) or The Glory (1772) is a fresco painted by Francisco Goya on the ceiling of the cupola over the Small Choir of the Virgin in the Bas\u00edlica de Nuestra Se\u00f1ora del Pilar in Zaragoza."},{"label":"DBpedia:Sixtus_IV_Appointing_Platina_as_Prefect_of_the_Vatican_Library","descr":"Sixtus IV Appointing Platina as Prefect of the Vatican Library is a fresco transferred to canvas by the Italian Renaissance artist Melozzo da Forl\u00ec, once decorating the Vatican Library, now housed in the Pinacoteca Vaticana in Rome. The fresco was executed in 1477 as the central scene of the decoration of the Vatican Library, founded by Sixtus IV two years before, including works by Antoniazzo Romano and the brothers Davide and Domenico Ghirlandaio. The scene shows the pope, seen from below, faced by the kneeling humanist Bartolomeo Platina, together with a series of characters wearing luxurious clothes, who are members of Sixtus' family: the two cardinals Pietro Riario, standing in the middle, and Giuliano della Rovere, behind him, and his nephews Girolamo Riario and Giovanni della Rovere on the left. The figure behind the pope's throne had been previously identified as Raffaele Riario. The background is a perspective representation of a classic architecture with arcades and a gilted coffer ceiling. Platina is pointing to an inscription, written by himself, which boasts Sixtus' deeds."},{"label":"DBpedia:Lamentation_(Piet%C3%A0)","descr":"Lamentation (Piet\u00e0) (also Lamentation Over The Dead Christ) is an oil-on-panel by Early Netherlandish painter Petrus Christus, painted in c. 1444. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:In_the_Water","descr":"In the Water (Dans l'Eau in French) is an oil on cradled panel painting of a skinny dipping young woman by Eugene de Blaas. It is his only nude, as all his other subjects are fully clothed. It is 78.4 cm. high and 44.5 cm. tall."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Wedding_at_Cana","descr":"This refers to the work of art of the 16th century. The Wedding Feast at Cana 400px Artist Paolo Veronese Year 1563 Type Oil on canvas Dimensions 666\u00a0cm \u00d7\u00a0990\u00a0cm Location Louvre, Paris The Wedding at Cana is a massive painting by the late-Renaissance or Mannerist Italian painter, Paolo Veronese. It is on display in the Mus\u00e9e du Louvre in Paris, where it is the largest painting in that museum's collection."},{"label":"DBpedia:Washington_Crossing_the_Delaware","descr":"Washington Crossing the Delaware is an 1851 oil-on-canvas painting by German American artist Emanuel Gottlieb Leutze. It commemorates General George Washington's crossing of the Delaware River on the night of December 25\u201326, 1776, during the American Revolutionary War. That action was the first move in a surprise attack against the Hessian forces at Trenton, New Jersey in the Battle of Trenton. The original was part of the collection at the Kunsthalle in Bremen, Germany and was destroyed in a British air raid in 1942. Leutze painted a second version which is now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. There are many copies, one of which is in the West Wing reception area of the White House."},{"label":"DBpedia:Miracle_of_the_Jealous_Husband","descr":"The Miracle of the Jealous Husband (Italian: Miracolo del marito Geloso) is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance master Titian, executed in 1511 as part of the decoration of the Scuola del Santo in Padua, northern Italy. It portrays a man stabbing his wife after she has been unjustly accused of adultery. When the man discovers the truth, he begs for pardon to St. Anthony, who resuscitates the woman (this scene is portrayed in smaller size on the right). The idyllic background is inspired by Giorgione's paintings."},{"label":"DBpedia:Young_Virgin_Auto-Sodomized_by_the_Horns_of_Her_Own_Chastity","descr":"Young Virgin Auto-Sodomized by the Horns of Her Own Chastity is a 1954 painting by Salvador Dal\u00ed. During the 1950s, Dal\u00ed painted many of his subjects as composed of rhinoceros horns. Here, the Young Virgin's buttocks consist of four converging horns; \"as the horns simultaneously comprise and threaten to sodomise the callipygian figure, she is effectively (auto) sodomised by her own constitution. \" Dal\u00ed's inspiration for the image appears to have come from Vermeer, one of a handful of artists regarded by Dal\u00ed as masters. Specifically, Vermeer's The Lacemaker seems to have been the galvanising element, with its convergent curves which focus on the subject's fingers and so to the penetration point of her needle - which as Dal\u00ed has pointed out is merely implied and not actually painted. In a stunt, Dal\u00ed set up his easel before Vermeer's original with the expressed intent of making a copy. The result however was this painting, which consciously uses Vermeer's focal-point arrangement, albeit to entirely different effect. The painting, formerly in the collection of The Playboy Mansion (Playboy Enterprises sold the painting in London in 2003 for 1.35 million pounds), recalls his depiction of his sister Ana Mar\u00eda in Figure at a Window (1925), and has therefore been read by some critics as a nasty jab at his sister, punishing her for publishing a biography on Dal\u00ed that presented a quite negative point of view; it has also been interpreted as a painting of Gala, though in fact the figure is based on a photograph from a 1930s sex magazine. In 1958, Dal\u00ed wrote, \"Paradoxically, this painting, which has an erotic appearance, is the most chaste of all.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Post-Impressionism","descr":"Post-Impressionism (also spelled Postimpressionism) is the term coined by the British artist and art critic Roger Fry in 1910 to describe the development of French art since Manet. Fry used the term when he organized the 1910 exhibition Manet and the Post-Impressionists. Post-Impressionists extended Impressionism while rejecting its limitations: they continued using vivid colours, thick application of paint, distinctive brush strokes, and real-life subject matter, but they were more inclined to emphasize geometric forms, to distort form for expressive effect, and to use unnatural or arbitrary colour."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Gonzaga_Family_in_Adoration_of_the_Holy_Trinity","descr":"The Gonzaga Family in Adoration of the Holy Trinity is a painting by the Dutch artist Peter Paul Rubens, housed in the Ducal Palace of Mantua, northern Italy. The work was commissioned by Duke Vincenzo I Gonzaga for the Jesuit church in Mantua. The work represents the central part of a triptych, in which the two side panels depicted the Transfiguration and the Baptism of Christ. During the French occupation of northern Italy, in the early 19th century, the work was split, and some parts went lost. The canvas portrays Vincenzo I and his wife, Eleonora de' Medici, near the images of the duke's parents, Guglielmo Gonzaga and Eleonore of Austria. Also depicted are several of their children with some halberdiers, one of which is Rubens' self-portrait."},{"label":"DBpedia:Dull_Gret","descr":"Dulle Griet (anglicized as Dull Gret), also known as Mad Meg, is a figure of Flemish folklore who is the subject of a 1562 oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder. The painting depicts a peasant woman, Mad Meg, who leads an army of women to pillage Hell, and is currently held and exhibited at the Museum Mayer van den Bergh in Antwerp."},{"label":"DBpedia:Wrestlers_(painting)","descr":"Wrestlers is an 1899 painting by Thomas Eakins, Goodrich catalog #317. Executed in oil on canvas, it depicts two nearly naked men engaged in a wrestling match. One figure has the other in a half nelson and crotch hold. Eakins painted the work from a nearly identical photograph. The photograph was probably taken in Eakins's studio on Monday, May 22, 1899. The previous Friday, Eakins wrote to his friend, sportswriter Clarence Cranmer, asking for his assistance in posing the athletes. G-319, the painting that Philadelphia Museum of Art President Fiske Kimball bought in 1926 and later donated to his museum, is thought to be an abandoned version, rather than a study for G-317. Letters from Cranmer to Kimball in the PMA Archives identify the man on top as Joseph McCann, a wrestler and championship boxer, but do not identify the man on the bottom. According to Kimball's reminiscences: Cranmer (who was acting as the dealer for Mrs. Eakins) said the abandoned version had been valued low, and had not been included in the Thomas Eakins memorial exhibitions. \"He said he would find out the price. It was $400. I bought it and by Christmas 1926 it was hanging in the library at Lemon Hill. \" The oil sketch, G-318, apparently was painted after G-319, along with the finished version, G-317. In these, the men are shown at the Quaker City Barge Club, which once stood on Philadelphia's Boathouse Row. Eakins's friend and prot\u00e9g\u00e9 Samuel Murray modeled a small sculpture of the wrestlers, that is also dated 1899. Until 2007, the finished version of The Wrestlers (G-317) was part of the permanent collection of the Columbus Museum of Art, Columbus, Ohio. It is now reunited with the study for it (G-318) at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. tt tttEakins, Thomas (1844-1916) - Lottatori 1. jpg ttt H-229. Photograph attributed to Eakins (probably May 22, 1899). ttt tt tt tttEakins, Thomas (1844-1916) - Lottatori 2. jpg ttt G-319. Unfinished version of Wrestlers (1899), Philadelphia Museum of Art. ttt tt tt tttStudy for Wrestlers. jpg ttt G-318. Study for Wrestlers (1899). Los Angeles County Museum of Art"},{"label":"DBpedia:Circe_Offering_the_Cup_to_Ulysses","descr":"Circe Offering the Cup to Ulysses is an oil painting in the Pre-Raphaelite style by John William Waterhouse that was created in 1891. The painting depicts a scene from Greek mythology, the sorceress Circe offering Odysseus a cup containing a potion with which she seeks to bring him under her spell as she has his crew."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Earthstopper","descr":"Earthstopper on the Banks of the Derwent is a painting by Joseph Wright of Derby originally completed in 1773. The scene shows a man digging at nighttime beside the River Derwent in Derbyshire."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Martyrdom_of_Saint_Ursula_(Caravaggio)","descr":"The Martyrdom of Saint Ursula (1610), is a painting by the Italian artist Caravaggio (1571\u20131610). It is owned by the Intesa Sanpaolo Bank. The holy Ursula, accompanied by eleven thousand virgins, was captured by the Huns. The eleven thousand virgins were slaughtered, but the king of the Huns was overcome by Ursula's modesty and beauty and begged her forgiveness if only she would marry him. Ursula replied that she would not, upon which the king transfixed her with an arrow. Caravaggio painted Saint Ursula in 1610 in Naples for Marcantonio Doria, a 25-year-old nobleman from Genoa. Doria had become an ardent collector of Caravaggio's work, and he commissioned the painting to mark the entry of his stepdaughter into a religious order as Sister Ursula. The date of the painting can be located at shortly prior to 11 May 1610, when Doria's agent in Naples wrote to his master that the painting was finished. There had been a slight accident, the agent wrote, when he had tried to hasten the drying by leaving it out in the sun the day before, softening the varnish. The agent told Doria not to worry as he would take it back to Caravaggio to be fixed and, in fact, Doria should commission more works from the artist as \"people are fighting over him and this is a good chance. \" It was received in Genoa on 18 June and Doria was delighted, placing it with his Raphaels and Leonardos and his vial of the authentic blood of John the Baptist. Caravaggio had arrived in Naples from Sicily in September or October 1609. Within days he was attacked outside a restaurant by four armed men, leading to rumours that he had been killed or facially disfigured. It is probable that he took a long time to convalesce, and it is difficult to link more than a handful of works, and most of them hesitantly, to this second stay in the city. The Saint Ursula, however, can be positively identified. It marks yet another change in style: in Sicily he had continued the compositional scheme introduced with The Beheading of Saint John the Baptist, a small group of figures dwarfed by massive architecture, but Ursula marks a return to a scene which brings the action directly into the space of the viewer, at the very moment when the Hun king lets fly his arrow, and Ursula looks down with an expression of mild surprise at the shaft sticking out of her chest. To the right and rear a few onlookers stare in shock, one of them, the upturned face behind Ursula, apparently Caravaggio himself. Everyone who had seen the painting had been stunned, Doria's agent reported. Doria himself might have been glad to see his favourite artist, unmarked despite all the rumours. Saint Ursula was one of the last paintings ever made by Caravaggio. In July he set off by boat to receive a pardon from the Pope for his part in the death of a young man in a duel in 1606. But instead of the pardon, he died, exactly how is unclear, although a fever is most frequently quoted as the cause, at Porto Ercole, on the coast north of Rome. A discussion of his death is given under the article on John the Baptist."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Procuress_(Dirck_van_Baburen)","descr":"The Procuress is the name given to a number of similar paintings by the Dutch Golden Age painter Dirck van Baburen. The painting is in the Caravaggiesque style of the Utrecht school."},{"label":"DBpedia:Woman_in_a_Purple_Coat","descr":"Woman In A Purple Coat or The Purple Coat is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1937. It depicts Matisse's assistant Lydia Delectorskaya. This painting is an example of Henri Matisse's mature decorative style. Matisse depicts his model and companion of many years, Lydia Delectorskaya, in an exotic Moroccan costume, surrounded by a complex of abstract design and exotic color. This is an example of one of the final groups of oil paintings in Matisse's career, in 1950 he stopped painting oil paintings in favor of creating paper cutouts."},{"label":"DBpedia:Blue_Poles","descr":"Blue Poles, originally titled Number 11, 1952, is an abstract expressionist painting and one of the most famous works by American artist Jackson Pollock. It was purchased amid controversy by the National Gallery of Australia in 1973 and today remains one of the gallery's major holdings."},{"label":"DBpedia:Voice_of_Fire","descr":"Voice of Fire is an acrylic on canvas abstract painting made by American painter Barnett Newman in 1967. The purchase of Voice of Fire by the National Gallery of Canada in Ottawa for its permanent collection in 1989 at a cost of $1.8 million caused a storm of controversy. Some residents mocked the purchase with striped T-shirts and ties that mimicked the painting. A book called Voices of Fire: Art Rage, Power, and the State, edited by Bruce Barber, Serge Guilbaut and John O'Brian, and published in 1996, discusses the issues around the purchase of the painting."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Elephant_Celebes","descr":"The Elephant Celebes (or Celebes) is a 1921 painting by the German Dadaist and surrealist Max Ernst. It is among the most famous of Ernst's early surrealist works and \"undoubtedly the first masterpiece of Surrealist painting in the De Chirico tradition. \" It combines the vivid, dreamlike atmosphere of Surrealism with the collage aspects of Dada."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Shop_Girl_(Tissot)","descr":"The Shop Girl (La Demoiselle de Magasin) is a painting by James Tissot in the collection of the Art Gallery of Ontario. The painting depicts a young woman standing inside a shop selling ribbons and dresses. In one hand she holds a wrapped package of newly purchased items. With the other she holds open the door to the store for the viewer to depart. The shop is filled with piles of ribbons. Outside a busy Parisian street scene is visible through the shop windows. A well dressed man stares in through the window and is greeted by the other girl in the shop. The painting was created in the period 1883\u20131885 using Tissot's distinctive style of dry pigments and small brush strokes\u2014not impressionism, but still a major departure from the Academy style. It also reflects some of Tissot's main interests, such as the materialistic world of objects and clothing of the late nineteenth century. The painting also employs Tissot's favourite technique of this period of placing the observer directly in the painting, with the shop girl holding the door open for us. It was first exhibited in 1885 at the Galerie Sedelmeyer. It was a part of an exhibit Tissot titled Quinze tableau sur la femme \u00e0 Paris (fifteen paintings on the woman of Paris). It was his last major exhibition before Tissot embraced religious subjects and spent the rest of his life painting scenes from the Bible. The painting was purchased by the Art Gallery of Ontario in 1968. Regina Haggo sees this painting as a depiction of barely contained lust. On the floor a fallen ribbon makes a clear heart shape. To Haggo the position of the heart on the floor makes clear this is a baser form of desire. The women are modestly clothed, but Tissot emphasizes their figures, especially the breasts of the woman raising her arms. In this period a woman working outside the home was considered morally dubious. The leering man and the vantage of the viewer can suggest that more than just the clothing is for sale. The man outside may be flirting with the shop girl, but Haggo notes that Tissot emasculated him by having a women's torso overlap his own."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Wheat_Sifters","descr":"The Wheat Sifters (Les Cribleuses de Bl\u00e9) is an 1854 painting by Gustave Courbet. It was exhibited at the Salon of 1855 in Paris, then in 1861 at the ninth exhibition of the Society of Friends of the Art of Nantes, which then bought the painting for the Mus\u00e9e des Beaux-Arts de Nantes. Both young women are probably the two sisters of Courbet\u00a0: Zoe (in the center) and Juliet (seated). The boy could be D\u00e9sir\u00e9 Binet, the illegitimate son of the painter."},{"label":"DBpedia:Lucca_Madonna_(van_Eyck)","descr":"The Lucca Madonna is an 1436 oil painting of the Madonna and Child by the Early Netherlandish master Jan van Eyck. It is on display in the St\u00e4del Museum in Frankfurt. It is known as Lucca Madonna as it belonged to the collection of Charles II, Duke of Parma and Lucca, in the early 19th century. It is one of the latest works by Jan van Eyck. The Virgin has been identified as a portrait of the painters's wife, Margaretha, of whom van Eyck also made a secular portrait. It portrays the Virgin sitting on a throne with four small lion statues, a reference to the throne of Solomon, which had twelve lions on the sides and steps. In Iconography this depiction of Madonna and Child, with Jesus sitting on Mary's knee, is called the Throne of Wisdom, and is a common iconological type. As the Speculum Humanae Salvationis put it: \"the throne of the true Solomon is the most Blessed Virgin Mary, In which sat Jesus Christ, the true wisdom. \" As in many paintings by van Eyck and his contemporaries, this comparison is further elaborated by specifically comparing Mary to an altar, where on her flat lap she supports the infant Christ, just as the altar supports the presence of Christ in the host at Mass. The white cloth beneath him, over the richer coloured cloth of Mary's dress, and the niche to the right which resembles a piscina where water for the priest to wash his hands was kept, all contribute to the comparison. The unusual shape of the room, very narrow for such a large chair, suggests a small chapel."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Beguiling_of_Merlin","descr":"The Beguiling of Merlin is a painting by the Pre-Raphaelite painter Edward Burne-Jones which was created between 1872 and 1877. The painting depicts a scene from Arthurian legend, the infatuation of Merlin with the Lady of the Lake, Nimue. Merlin is shown trapped, helpless in a hawthorn bush as Nimue reads from a book of spells. The work was commissioned from Burne-Jones by Frederick Richards Leyland, a Liverpool ship-owner and art-collector, in the late 1860s. After a false start blamed on \"poor materials\" Burne-Jones began work on the painting proper in 1873, finishing the body of the work by the end of 1874; although the painting was not first exhibited until 1877 at the opening exhibition of the Grosvenor Gallery in London. Burne-Jones used Maria Zambaco, who was probably his mistress from 1866 to 1872, for the model for the head of Nimue. The painting was purchased by Lord Leverhulme in 1918 and remains in the Lady Lever Art Gallery to the present day. The painting features on the cover of the novel Possession: A Romance by A. S. Byatt and The Last Pre-Raphaelite by Fiona MacCarthy"},{"label":"DBpedia:At_Binsey,_near_Oxford","descr":"At Binsey, near Oxford is a watercolour painting by the English Victorian artist George Price Boyce, who was associated with the Pre-Raphaelite art movement. This 1862 watercolour is a view in the village of Binsey close to the city of Oxford in Oxfordshire, England."},{"label":"DBpedia:Las_Meninas","descr":"Las Meninas (Spanish for The Maids of Honour) is a 1656 painting by Diego Vel\u00e1zquez, the leading artist of the Spanish Golden Age, in the Museo del Prado in Madrid. The work's complex and enigmatic composition raises questions about reality and illusion, and creates an uncertain relationship between the viewer and the figures depicted. Because of these complexities, Las Meninas has been one of the most widely analyzed works in Western painting. The painting shows a large room in the Madrid palace of King Philip IV of Spain, and presents several figures, most identifiable from the Spanish court, captured, according to some commentators, in a particular moment as if in a snapshot. Some look out of the canvas towards the viewer, while others interact among themselves. The young Infanta Margaret Theresa is surrounded by her entourage of maids of honour, chaperone, bodyguard, two dwarfs and a dog. Just behind them, Vel\u00e1zquez portrays himself working at a large canvas. Vel\u00e1zquez looks outwards, beyond the pictorial space to where a viewer of the painting would stand. In the background there is a mirror that reflects the upper bodies of the king and queen. They appear to be placed outside the picture space in a position similar to that of the viewer, although some scholars have speculated that their image is a reflection from the painting Vel\u00e1zquez is shown working on. Las Meninas has long been recognised as one of the most important paintings in Western art history. The Baroque painter Luca Giordano said that it represents the \"theology of painting\", while in the 19th century Sir Thomas Lawrence called the work \"the philosophy of art\". More recently, it has been described as \"Vel\u00e1zquez's supreme achievement, a highly self-conscious, calculated demonstration of what painting could achieve, and perhaps the most searching comment ever made on the possibilities of the easel painting\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:Our_Lady_of_the_Don","descr":"Our Lady of the Don (Russian: \u0414\u043e\u043d\u0441\u043a\u0430\u044f \u0438\u043a\u043e\u043d\u0430 \u0411\u043e\u0436\u0438\u0435\u0439 \u041c\u0430\u0442\u0435\u0440\u0438) is a 14th-century Eleusa icon representing Virgin Mary with the infant Jesus Christ. The icon, currently held in Tretyakov Gallery in Moscow, displays an Eleusa composition. The origins of the icon and the exact date of its creation are contested. It is believed to be painted by Theophanes the Greek circa 1382-1395. The monastery book of Donskoy Monastery states that Our Lady of the Don was a gift from Don Cossacks to Dmitry Donskoy the day before Battle of Kulikovo (1380)."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Knitting_Girl","descr":"The Knitting Girl is a painting created by nineteenth century French artist William-Adolphe Bouguereau in 1869. The painting is also referred to as Knitting Anne due to the simplistic nature of the female portrayed herein. The painting is currently held in the Joslyn Art Museum in Omaha, Nebraska in the United States."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_a_Young_Man_(Raphael)","descr":"Portrait of a Young Man is a painting in oil on panel, probably from 1513\u20131514, by the Italian High Renaissance Old Master painter and architect Raffaello Sanzio da Urbino better known simply as Raphael. The painting was stolen by the Nazis in Poland. Since then, its whereabouts have been unknown. Many historians regard it as the most important painting missing since World War II. The subject's identity is unverified, but many scholars have traditionally regarded it as Raphael's self-portrait. The facial features are perceived by specialists as compatible with, if not clearly identical to, the only undoubted self-portrait by Raphael in his fresco The School of Athens at the Vatican, identified as such by Vasari. If it is a self-portrait, no hint is given of Raphael's profession; the portrait shows a richly-dressed and \"confidently-poised\" young man. The painting was brought to Poland, along with Leonardo da Vinci's Lady with an Ermine and many Roman antiquities, by Prince Adam Jerzy Czartoryski, son of Princess Izabela Czartoryska, on his travels to Italy in 1798."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Burning_Giraffe","descr":"'The Burning Giraffe' (1937) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dal\u00ed. Dal\u00ed painted Burning Giraffe before his exile in the United States which was from 1940 - 1948. Although Dal\u00ed declared himself apolitical\u2014 \"I am Dal\u00ed, and only that\"\u2014this painting shows his personal struggle with the battle in his home country. Characteristic are the opened drawers in the blue female figure, which Dal\u00ed on a later date described as \"Femme-coccyx\" (tail bone woman). This phenomenon can be traced back to Sigmund Freud's psychoanalytical method, much admired by Dal\u00ed. He regarded him as an enormous step forward for civilization, as shown in the following quote. \"The only difference between immortal Greece and our era is Sigmund Freud who discovered that the human body, which in Greek times was merely neoplatonical, is now filled with secret drawers only to be opened through psychoanalysis. \" The opened drawers in this expressive, propped up female figure thus refer to the inner, subconscious within man. In Dal\u00ed's own words his paintings form \"a kind of allegory which serves to illustrate a certain insight, to follow the numerous narcissistic smells which ascend from each of our drawers. \" The image is set in a twilight atmosphere with deep blue sky. There are two female figures in the foreground, one with drawers opening from her side like a chest. They both have undefined phallic shapes (perhaps melted clocks, as a recurring image from Dali's previous works) protruding from their backs which are supported by crutch-like objects. The hands, forearms and face of the nearest figure are stripped down to the muscular tissue beneath the skin. One figure is holding a strip of meat. Both humanures that double as a chest of drawers as well as the crutch like shapes are common archetypes in Dal\u00ed\u2019s work. In the distance is a giraffe with its back on fire. Dal\u00ed first used the burning giraffe image in his 1930 film L'\u00c2ge d'Or (The Golden Age). It appears again in 1937 in the painting The Invention of Monsters. Dal\u00ed described this image as \u201cthe masculine cosmic apocalyptic monster. \u201d He believed it to be a premonition of war."},{"label":"DBpedia:Annunciation_(Filippo_Lippi,_London)","descr":"The Annunciation is a tempera on panel painting by the Italian Renaissance master Filippo Lippi, dating to c. 1449-1459 and housed in the National Gallery of London."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Tree_of_Crows","descr":"The Tree of Crows is an oil painting of 1822 by the German Romantic artist Caspar David Friedrich. It is currently housed in the Mus\u00e9e du Louvre in Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Death_of_Nelson_(West_painting)","descr":"The Death of Nelson is a painting by the American artist Benjamin West dated 1806. In 1770, West painted The Death of General Wolfe. This was not an accurate representation of the event, but rather an idealisation, and it included people who were not present at the event. Nevertheless it became very popular, and West painted at least five copies. In 1801, three years after the Battle of the Nile, West met Horatio Nelson, who told him how much he admired the painting of Wolfe, and asked why he had not produced any more similar paintings. West, who was at the time the President of the Royal Academy, replied that he had found no subject of comparable notability. Nelson then expressed the desire that he would be the subject of West's next similar painting. In 1805, Nelson was killed in the Battle of Trafalgar and, within six months, West had created this painting. Again it proved to be popular. When West exhibited it in his studio, within just over a month it was seen by 30,000\u00a0members of the public. Again it was an idealisation of the subject. Although West took considerable trouble about the accuracy of details in his painting, basing the portraits on over 50\u00a0survivors of the battle, he produced, as he admitted himself, a picture \"of what might have been, not of the circumstances as they happened\". West created two more paintings with Nelson as the subject, The Death of Lord Nelson in the Cockpit of the Ship \"Victory\" and The Immortality of Nelson, both of which are in the National Maritime Museum. Other artists produced works depicting the same event. One of these was Arthur William Devis who painted The Death of Nelson, 21 October 1805, now also in the National Maritime Museum. Another was The Death of Nelson by Daniel Maclise, a large wall painting in the Royal Gallery of the Palace of Westminster. The finished study for this work is owned by the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool, Merseyside, England, having been bought by the gallery in 1892. West's painting is in oil on canvas and measures 182.5 centimetres by 247.5 centimetres . It was presented to the Walker Art Gallery by Bristow H. Hughes."},{"label":"DBpedia:Dante's_Dream","descr":"Dante's Dream (full title Dante's Dream at the Time of the Death of Beatrice) is a painting from 1871 by the English Pre-Raphaelite painter Dante Gabriel Rossetti. It hangs in the Walker Art Gallery, Liverpool, Merseyside, England. Rossetti had a lifelong interest in the Italian poet Dante Alighieri. The painting was inspired by Dante's poem La Vita Nuova. In this poem Dante dreams that he is led to the death-bed of Beatrice Portinari, who was the object of his unfulfilled love. Dante, in black, stands looking towards the dying Beatrice who is lying on a bed. Two female figures in green hold a canopy over her. An angel in red holds Dante's hand and leans forward to kiss Beatrice. In the painting, Rossetti creates a visionary world with complex symbols. The symbols include the green clothes of Beatrice's attendants, signifying hope; spring flowers in the foreground symbolising purity; and red doves for love. It is Rossetti's largest painting. The model for Beatrice was Jane Morris, the wife of William Morris. The Walker Art Gallery bought the painting directly from the artist in 1881 for \u00a31575 (\u00a3 as of 2013). In 1897 it was sent to Berlin to be photographed, but was then noted to be \"in a dirty condition\". Again in 1904 the painting was noted to be in \"a bad condition\" and it was considered that its condition had been worsened by its journey to and from Berlin. The painting was sent in 1908 to the National Gallery in London to be relined, that is, for a new canvas to the glued to the original. It was then returned to Liverpool. During the Second World War, it was removed from its stretcher, rolled and stored in the basement of the gallery. In 1941 the painting was moved, together with other large paintings from the gallery, to Ellesmere College in Shropshire. It was noted at this time that it had sustained some damage. Conservation work was carried out on the painting in 1960 and in 1985. Dante's Dream is a painting in oil on canvas, measuring 216 centimetres by 312.4 centimetres . It was examined in 2003 and found to be in good condition, with no evidence of any recurrence of the former problems."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Love_Potion","descr":"The Love Potion is a 1903 painting by Evelyn de Morgan depicting a witch with a black cat familiar at her feet. According to Elise Lawton Smith, the painting \"exhibits a Pre-Raphaelite fascination with medieval subjects and decorative detailing.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_a_Courtesan_(Caravaggio)","descr":"Portrait of a Courtesan (also known as Portrait of Fillide) was a painting by the Baroque master Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio. Painted between 1597 and 1599, it was destroyed in Berlin in 1945 and is known only from photographs. It has been suggested that the portrait represents the goddess Flora."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_a_Lady_known_as_Esmeralda_Brandini","descr":"The Portrait of Smeralda Brandini is a tempera on panel painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Sandro Botticelli of about 1475, in the Victoria and Albert Museum, London (museum no. CAI.100)."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Blue_Kitchen","descr":"The Blue Kitchen is the title of a neo-impressionist painting by Norwegian artist Ludvig Karsten, showing a kitchen table ready for breakfast, while the morning sun is shining through the window. The blue Kitchen is regarded among Karsten's most important paintings. It is located at the National Gallery in Oslo. In 1913 Karsten was newly married, and the couple moved from Copenhagen to the Norwegian island Hvasser. Sources differ whether Blue Kitchen is painted in Copenhagen or Hvasser. The painting was bought by art collector Christian Tetzen-Lund in 1913. In his notebook he called it Det blaa Vindue, and he had paid a price of NOK\u00a0125. The blue Kitchen was first publicly exhibited at The Autumn Exhibition in Kristiania in 1913, and also at an exhibition in Copenhagen later the same year. The National Gallery acquired the painting after offering a price of NOK\u00a0800."},{"label":"DBpedia:Hands_flying_off_toward_the_constellations","descr":"Hands flying off toward the constellations is a painting by Joan Mir\u00f3 dated 19 January 1974. It is now shown at the Fundaci\u00f3 Joan Mir\u00f3, in Barcelona. The artist gave the work to the Foundation in the same month that it opened to the public on 10 June 1975."},{"label":"DBpedia:Time_Transfixed","descr":"Time Transfixed (La Dur\u00e9e poignard\u00e9e, 1938) is an oil on canvas painting by the Belgian surrealist Ren\u00e9 Magritte. It is part of the permanent collection of the Art Institute of Chicago and is usually on display in the museum's new Modern Wing. The painting was one of many done for surrealist patron and Magritte supporter Edward James. This was the second painting delivered to James for his London ballroom. The first was the portrait of James, Not to be Reproduced. Time Transfixed was purchased by the Art Institute from James in 1970 when he was raising capital to build his surrealist sculpture garden Las Pozas. The painting depicts a \"Black Five\" locomotive jutting out of a fireplace, at full steam, in an empty room. Above the mantlepiece is a tall mirror. Only the clock and one candlestick standing on the mantlepiece are reflected in the mirror, suggesting that there are neither people nor furniture in the room."},{"label":"DBpedia:Bulb_Fields","descr":"Bulb Fields also known as Flower Beds in Holland is an oil painting created in 1883 by Vincent van Gogh. Bulb Fields was Van Gogh\u2019s first garden painting. Rectangular plots of blue, yellow, pink and red hyacinths allow Van Gogh to explore his interest in perspective. The low vantage point creates a panoramic view of the field of colorful spring flowers. It was made in Van Gogh's second year in The Hague."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Raft_of_the_Medusa","descr":"The Raft of the Medusa (French: Le Radeau de la M\u00e9duse) is an oil painting of 1818\u20131819 by the French Romantic painter and lithographer Th\u00e9odore G\u00e9ricault (1791\u20131824). Completed when the artist was 27, the work has become an icon of French Romanticism. At 491\u00a0cm \u00d7 716\u00a0cm (193.3\u00a0in \u00d7 282.3\u00a0in), it is an over-life-size painting that depicts a moment from the aftermath of the wreck of the French naval frigate M\u00e9duse, which ran aground off the coast of today's Mauritania on July 5, 1816. At least 147 people were set adrift on a hurriedly constructed raft; all but 15 died in the 13\u00a0days before their rescue, and those who survived endured starvation, dehydration, cannibalism, and madness. The event became an international scandal, in part because its cause was widely attributed to the incompetence of the French captain perceived to be acting under the authority of the recently restored French monarchy. In reality, King Louis XVIII had no say in the captain's appointment, since monarchs were not directly involved in appointments made to vessels like a naval frigate. The appointment of the vicomte de Chaumareys as captain of the M\u00e9duse would have been a routine naval appointment, made within the Ministry of the Navy. In choosing the tragedy as subject matter for his first major work\u2014an uncommissioned depiction of an event from recent history\u2014G\u00e9ricault consciously selected a well-known incident that would generate great public interest and help launch his career. The event fascinated the young artist, and before he began work on the final painting, he undertook extensive research and produced many preparatory sketches. He interviewed two of the survivors, and constructed a detailed scale model of the raft. His efforts took him to morgues and hospitals where he could view, first-hand, the colour and texture of the flesh of the dying and dead. As the artist had anticipated, the painting proved highly controversial at its first appearance in the 1819 Paris Salon, attracting passionate praise and condemnation in equal measure. However, it established his international reputation, and today is widely seen as seminal in the early history of the Romantic movement in French painting. Although The Raft of the Medusa retains elements of the traditions of history painting, in both its choice of subject matter and its dramatic presentation, it represents a break from the calm and order of the then-prevailing Neoclassical school. G\u00e9ricault's work attracted wide attention almost immediately from its first showing, and was subsequently exhibited in London. It was acquired by the Louvre soon after the artist's early death at the age of 32. The painting's influence can be seen in the works of Eug\u00e8ne Delacroix, J. M. W. Turner, Gustave Courbet and \u00c9douard Manet."},{"label":"DBpedia:Black_Leaf_on_Green_Background","descr":"Black Leaf on Green Background (1952) is a painting by Henri Matisse. It was made by Matisse with Gouache and cut paper on paper. It is currently in the Menil Collection, Houston, Texas. During the early-to-mid-1940s Matisse was in poor health. Eventually by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. Black Leaf on Green Background, is an example of Matisse's final body of works known as the cutouts."},{"label":"DBpedia:White_Crucifixion","descr":"The White Crucifixion is a painting by Marc Chagall. It was painted in 1938 after Chagall had visited Europe, and can be viewed at the Art Institute of Chicago."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Feast_in_the_House_of_Levi","descr":"The Feast in the House of Levi or Christ in the House of Levi is a 1573 painting by Italian painter Paolo Veronese and one of the largest canvases of the 16th century measuring 555 x 1280\u00a0cm (18 x 42 feet). It is now in the Gallerie dell'Accademia, in Venice. It was painted by Veronese for the Dominican order of SS. Giovanni Paolo as a Last Supper, to replace an earlier work by Titian destroyed in the fire of 1571. However the painting led to an investigation by the Roman Catholic Inquisition. Veronese was called to answer for irreverence and indecorum, and the serious offence of heresy was mentioned. He was asked to explain why the painting contained \"buffoons, drunken Germans, dwarfs and other such scurrilities\" as well as extravagant costumes and settings, in what is indeed a fantasy version of a Venetian patrician feast. Veronese was told that he must change his painting within a three month period; instead, he simply changed the title to The Feast in the House of Levi, still an episode from the Gospels, but a less doctrinally central one, and no more was said."},{"label":"DBpedia:Annunciation_(Botticelli,_Glasgow)","descr":"The Annunciation is a painting created by Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli. It is a tempera on panel and measures 49.5 cm tall and 58.5 cm wide. It is in the Kelvingrove Art Gallery and Museum in Glasgow, Scotland. Its date is not certain though a majority of the critics consider it early, noticing certain elements reminiscent of Verrocchio. Van Marle, however, dates it circa 1490. On the lower part there is a note that indicates that it came from the Florentine Church of Saint Barnabas. The atmosphere is achieved through the succession of columns and sections of flooring that serve to demonstrate the perspective. The solemn architecture overlooks the figures."},{"label":"DBpedia:Landscape_with_Dunes","descr":"Landscape with Dunes is an oil painting created in 1883 by Vincent van Gogh."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Conversation_(painting)","descr":"The Conversation is a painting by Henri Matisse dating from 1908\u20131912, depicting the artist and his wife facing each other before a background of intense blue. It is in the collection of the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg, Russia. This was among several works acquired directly from Matisse in Paris by the Russian collector Sergei Shchukin. After the Russian Revolution the Shchukin collection was confiscated and eventually by 1948 the collection was donated to the public along with the Ivan Morozov collection, at the Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts in Moscow and the Hermitage Museum in St Petersburg. Matisse painted The Conversation at a time when he had abandoned the open, spontaneous brushwork of his Fauve period in favor of a flatter and more decorative style. The painting is large (69\u00a05\/8\u00a0in. x 85\u00a03\/8\u00a0in. , or 177\u00a0cm x 217\u00a0cm), and shows Matisse in profile, standing at the left in striped pajamas, while his wife, Am\u00e9lie, sits to the right. The flatly painted blue wall behind them is relieved by a window opening onto a garden landscape. Art historian Hilary Spurling has described this \"stern encounter\" as \"portray[ing ing] the profound underlying shape or mechanism of a relationship laid down for both parties on the day, soon after they first met in 1897, when Matisse warned his future wife that, dearly as he loved her, he would always love painting more. \" The pajamas worn by Matisse were fashionable as leisure wear in early 20th century France. They had recently been introduced to Europe from India, where they were worn by tea planters, and Matisse habitually thereafter wore pajamas as his studio working clothes."},{"label":"DBpedia:Mona_Lisa","descr":"The Mona Lisa (La Gioconda or La Joconde, or Portrait of Lisa Gherardini, wife of Francesco del Giocondo) is a half-length portrait of a woman by the Italian artist Leonardo da Vinci, which has been acclaimed as \"the best known, the most visited, the most written about, the most sung about, the most parodied work of art in the world. \" The painting, thought to be a portrait of Lisa Gherardini, the wife of Francesco del Giocondo, is in oil on a poplar panel, and is believed to have been painted between 1503 and 1506. It was acquired by King Francis I of France and is now the property of the French Republic, on permanent display at the Mus\u00e9e du Louvre in Paris since 1797. The ambiguity of the subject's expression, which is frequently described as enigmatic, the monumentality of the composition, the subtle modeling of forms and the atmospheric illusionism were novel qualities that have contributed to the continuing fascination and study of the work."},{"label":"DBpedia:Las_Hilanderas_(Vel%C3%A1zquez)","descr":"Las Hilanderas is a painting by the Spanish painter Diego Vel\u00e1zquez, dating from c. 1657 and housed in the Museo del Prado of Madrid, Spain. It was painted for Don Pedro de Arce, huntsman to King Philip IV. Stylistic elements, such as the lightness, the economical use of paint, and the clear influence of the Italian Baroque, have led many scholars to assert that it was painted in 1657. Others place it earlier, at some time between 1644\u201350, perhaps because certain aspects of its form and content recall the bodegones Vel\u00e1zquez painted in his early career. The second ambiguity concerns the subject matter. Traditionally, it was believed that the painting depicted women workers in the tapestry workshop of Santa Isabel. In 1948, however, Diego Angula observed that the iconography suggested Ovid's Fable of Arachne, the story of the mortal Arachne who dared to challenge the goddess Athena to a weaving competition and, on winning the contest, was turned into a spider by the jealous goddess. This is now generally accepted as the correct interpretation of the painting. In Las Hilanderas, Vel\u00e1zquez developed a layered composition, an approach he had often used in his earlier bodegones, such as the Kitchen Scene with Christ in the House of Martha and Mary. In the foreground is the contest. The goddess Athena, disguised as an old woman, is on the left and Arachne, in a white top facing away from the viewer, is on the right. Three helpers assist them. In the background, a raised platform (perhaps a stage) displays the finished tapestries. The one visible to us is Arachne's, showing The Rape of Europa Template:Where? \u2014 another Greek myth. This is in fact a copy of Titian's version of the subject, which was in the Spanish royal collection. The painting has been interpreted as an allegory of the arts and even as a commentary on the range of creative endeavor, with the fine arts represented by the goddess and the crafts represented by Arachne. Others think that Vel\u00e1zquez' message was simply that to create great works of art, both great creativity and hard technical work are required. Other scholars have read political allegories into the work and interpreted it through popular culture. The canvas was probably damaged by the fire at the Alc\u00e1zar in 1734. The result was the addition of a new section to the upper portion of the canvas."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Milkmaid_(Vermeer)","descr":"The Milkmaid (De Melkmeid or Het Melkmeisje), sometimes called The Kitchen Maid, is an oil-on-canvas painting of a \"milkmaid\", in fact a domestic kitchen maid, by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer. It is now in the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam, Netherlands, which regards it as \"unquestionably one of the museum's finest attractions\". The exact year of the painting's completion is unknown, with estimates varying by source. The Rijksmuseum estimates it as circa 1658. According to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, it was painted in about 1657 or 1658. The \"Essential Vermeer\" website gives a broader range of 1658\u20131661."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Storm_at_Sea","descr":"Storm at Sea is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in c. 1569. It is currently held and exhibited at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Procession_to_Calvary_(Bruegel)","descr":"The Procession to Calvary is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder of Christ carrying the Cross set in a large landscape, painted in 1564. It is in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna."},{"label":"DBpedia:Barbadori_Altarpiece","descr":"The Barbadori Altarpiece is a painting by Filippo Lippi, dated to 1438 and housed in the Louvre Museum of Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Listening_Room","descr":"The Listening Room (La Chambre d'\u00c9coute, 1952) is an oil on canvas painting by the Belgian surrealist Ren\u00e9 Magritte which is currently part of the Menil Collection in Houston, Texas. A later version of the painting (also of the same name) was made in 1958 and is held in a private collection. Both paintings feature identical (or near-identical) green apples, but place them in different rooms. In the 1952 version, the room has wood flooring and a glass window with white trim. In the 1958 version, this is replaced by a gray brick room with an arched open-air window. The painting highlights a number of themes common in Magritte's work. Other paintings to prominently feature an apple include The Son of Man (1964), where the apple obscures the face of bowler-hatted man, and This is not an Apple (1964), where an apple is accompanied by the caption \"Ceci n'est pas une pomme\" (\"This is not an apple\"). It is also one of many paintings to play with the concept of scale by juxtaposing objects normally of different sizes. In Elective Affinities (1933) an egg is pictured filling a birdcage, in The Tomb of the Wrestlers (1961) a red rose fills a room and in Personal Values (1951\u201352) common household objects such as a comb, a glass and a bar of soap dwarf the usual furniture in a bedroom. The 1958 reproduction of the painting was used for the album cover of Beck-Ola by The Jeff Beck Group."},{"label":"DBpedia:Man_with_a_Glove","descr":"The Man with a Glove is an oil-on-canvas portrait by the Italian Renaissance artist Titian, circa 1520. It is currently housed in the Mus\u00e9e du Louvre, Paris. It is signed Ticianus f. on the marble slab on the lower right corner."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Intervention_of_the_Sabine_Women","descr":"The Intervention of the Sabine Women is a 1799 painting by the French painter Jacques-Louis David. David began planning the work while he was imprisoned in the Luxembourg Palace in 1795. France was at war with other European nations after a period of civil conflict culminating in the Reign of Terror and the Thermidorian Reaction, during which David had been imprisoned as a supporter of Robespierre. David hesitated between representing either this subject or that of Homer reciting his verses to the Greeks. He finally chose to make a canvas representing the Sabine women interposing themselves to separate the Romans and Sabines, as a 'sequel' to Poussin's The Rape of the Sabine Women. David began work on it in 1796, after his estranged wife visited him in jail. He conceived the idea of telling the story, to honour his wife, with the theme being love prevailing over conflict. The painting was also seen as a plea for the people to reunite after the bloodshed of the revolution. Its realization took him nearly four years. The painting depicts Romulus's wife Hersilia \u2013 the daughter of Titus Tatius, leader of the Sabines \u2013 rushing between her husband and her father and placing her babies between them. A vigorous Romulus prepares to strike a half-retreating Tatius with his spear, but hesitates. The rocky outcrop in the background is the Tarpeian Rock, a reference to civil conflict, since the Roman punishment for treason was to be thrown from the rock. According to legend, when Tatius attacked Rome, he almost succeeded in capturing the city because of the treason of the Vestal Virgin Tarpeia, daughter of Spurius Tarpeius, governor of the citadel on the Capitoline Hill. She opened the city gates for the Sabines in return for 'what they bore on their arms. ' She believed that she would receive their golden bracelets. Instead, the Sabines crushed her to death with their shields, and she was thrown from the rock which since bore her name. In 1799 David exhibited the The Intervention of the Sabine Women at the Louvre, where it attracted a large number of paying visitors until 1805. After the expulsion of artists including David from the Louvre, the picture could be found in the ancient church of Cluny, which he used as a workshop. In 1819 he sold the Sabines and his L\u00e9onidas at Thermopylae to the Royal Museums for 10,000 francs."},{"label":"DBpedia:Bombardment_of_Algiers_(painting)","descr":"Bombardment of Algiers is one of a number of oil-on-canvas paintings by British artist Thomas Luny depicting the heavy bombardment of the harbour of Algiers by a fleet of Anglo-Dutch ships under the command of Admiral Lord Exmouth, and the ensuing destruction. The exact date of the paintings creation is not known, but it is signed and dated to 1820 by Luny, four years after the events depicted."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Difficult_Crossing","descr":"The Difficult Crossing (La travers\u00e9e difficile) is the name given to two oil-on-canvas paintings by the Belgian surrealist Ren\u00e9 Magritte. The original version was completed in 1926 during Magritte's early prolific years of surrealism and is currently held in a private collection. A later version was completed in 1963 and is also held in a private collection."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Hireling_Shepherd","descr":"The Hireling Shepherd (1851) is a painting by the Pre-Raphaelite artist William Holman Hunt. It represents a shepherd neglecting his flock in favour of an attractive country girl to whom he shows a death's-head hawkmoth. The meaning of the image has been much debated. Hunt painted the picture when he was working in close collaboration with John Everett Millais, who was painting Ophelia at the same time in the same region of Surrey. Both paintings depict English rural scenes, the innocence of which is disturbed by subtle but profoundly threatening violations of natural harmony. In Hunt's painting, the shepherd ignores his flock of sheep, who wander over a ditch into a field of corn. This violation of boundaries is paralleled by the shepherd's physical intrusions into the personal space of the young woman, who responds in an ambiguous way that might be interpreted as complicity or as a knowing scepticism. As he shows her the moth, he places his arm round her shoulder."},{"label":"DBpedia:Woman_with_a_Mirror","descr":"Woman with a Mirror (French: La Femme au miroir) is a painting by Titian, dated to circa 1515 and now in the Mus\u00e9e du Louvre."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Prophet_Isaiah_(Raphael)","descr":"The Prophet Isaiah is a fresco located in Basilica di Sant'Agostino, an early Renaissance church in Rome. It is an Italian Renaissance painting, influenced by Michaelangelo's work on the Sistine Chapel ceiling. Isaiah, a powerful figure, gives the illusion of a three-dimensional character, flanked by putti figures. He carries a Hebrew scroll with his prophecy foretelling the birth of Christ. There is also a message to Saint Anne. Due to wear, Raphael's work has been retouched by other painters over time. In 1960, the fresco was restored to Raphael's vision."},{"label":"DBpedia:Femme_aux_Bras_Crois%C3%A9s","descr":"Femme aux Bras Crois\u00e9s (Woman with Folded Arms), is a painting by Pablo Picasso done in 1902 during his Blue Period. The subject of the painting is unknown, but she may be an inmate of the Saint-Lazare hospital-prison in Paris. In her book Pablo Picasso, Antonina Vallentin devotes a great deal of time to writing about the haunting qualities of this painting. She describes her views of the subject as an inmate, who recently attempted suicide and now carries the blank but menacing stare of those unfortunates who found themselves at Saint-Lazare during the early 1900s."},{"label":"DBpedia:Annunciation_(van_Eyck,_Washington)","descr":"The Annunciation is an oil painting by the Early Netherlandish master Jan van Eyck, from around 1434-1436. It is in the National Gallery of Art, in Washington D.C. It was originally on panel but has been transferred to canvas. It is thought that it was the left (inner) wing of a triptych; there has been no sighting of the other wings since before 1817. It is a highly complex work, whose iconography is still debated by art historians. The picture depicts the Annunciation by the Archangel Gabriel to the Virgin Mary that she will bear the son of God. The inscription shows his words: \"AVE GR\u00c3. PLENA\" or \"Hail, full of grace...\". She modestly draws back and responds, \"ECCE ANCILLA D\u00d1I. \" or \"Behold the handmaiden of the Lord\". Her words are painted upside down for God above to see. The Seven gifts of the Holy Spirit descend to her on seven rays of light from the upper window to the left, with the dove symbolising the Holy Spirit following the same path. \"This is the moment God's plan for salvation is set in motion. Through Christ's human incarnation the old era of the Law is transformed into a new era of Grace\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Disintegration_of_the_Persistence_of_Memory","descr":"La Desintegraci\u00f3n de la Persistencia de la Memoria or The Disintegration of the Persistence of Memory (oil on canvas, 1954), is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dal\u00ed. It is an oil on canvas re-creation of the artist's famous 1931 work The Persistence of Memory, and measures a diminutive 25.4 \u00d7 33\u00a0cm. It was originally known as The Chromosome of a Highly-coloured Fish's Eye Starting the Harmonious Disintegration of the Persistence of Memory, and first exhibited at the Carstairs Gallery in New York in 1954."},{"label":"DBpedia:Metamorphosis_(Mir%C3%B3)","descr":"Metamorphosis is a series of collage-drawings by Joan Mir\u00f3, made between 1935 and 1936. This is a series of works made as an interlude while Mir\u00f3 was painting the series Paintings on masonite."},{"label":"DBpedia:Little_Big_Painting","descr":"Little Big Painting is a 1965 oil and Magna on canvas pop art painting by Roy Lichtenstein. It is part of the Brushstrokes series of artworks that includes several paintings and sculptures. It is located at the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York City. As with all of his Brushstrokes works, it is in part a satirical response to the gestural painting of Abstract Expressionism."},{"label":"DBpedia:Dana%C3%AB_(Rembrandt_painting)","descr":"Dana\u00eb is Rembrandt's painting from the collection of Pierre Crozat which from the 18th century resides in the Hermitage Museum, St. Petersburg, Russia. It is a life-sized depiction of the character Dana\u00eb from Greek mythology, the mother of Perseus. She is presumably depicted as welcoming Zeus, who impregnated her in the form of a shower of gold. Given that this is one of Rembrandt's most magnificent paintings, it is not out of the question that he cherished it, but it also may have been difficult to sell because of its eight-by-ten-foot size. Although the artist's wife Saskia was the original model for Dana\u00eb, Rembrandt later changed the figure's face to that of his mistress Geertje Dircx."},{"label":"DBpedia:Death_of_the_Reprobate","descr":"Death of the Reprobate is an oil on panel painting by Hieronymus Bosch which depicts the deathbed struggle for the human soul between the angel and the demon. The style is somewhat similar to his Death of the Miser. It is currently in a private collection, New York, USA. The painting is likely a copy of detail from a larger hell panel. It dates from the second half of the sixteenth century."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Story_of_Lucretia_(Botticelli)","descr":"The Tragedy of Lucretia is a tempera and oil painting on a wood cassone or spalliera panel by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, painted between 1496 and 1504. Known less formally as the Botticelli Lucretia, it is housed in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum of Boston, having been owned by Isabella Stewart Gardner in her lifetime."},{"label":"DBpedia:Blue_Nude_II","descr":"Blue Nudes refer to a series of gouaches d\u00e9coup\u00e9es by Henri Matisse, executed in 1952. They represent female nudes either seated or standing, and are among Matisse's final works in any medium. During the early-to-mid-1940s Matisse was in poor health. Eventually by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. The Blue Nudes are a major series' of Matisse's final body of works known as the cutouts. The color blue signified distance and volume to Matisse. Frustrated in his attempts to successfully marry dominant and contrasting tones, the artist was moved to use solid slabs of single color early in his career, a technique that became known as Fauvism. The painted gouache cut-outs that comprise the Blue Nudes were inspired by Matisse's collection of African sculpture and a visit that he made to Tahiti in 1930. It took another twenty years and a period of incapacity after an operation before Matisse synthesized these influences into this seminal series."},{"label":"DBpedia:Reading_the_Letter_(Picasso)","descr":"La Lecture de la Lettre (Reading the Letter) is a painting by Pablo Picasso, painted circa 1921, during the artist's transition from Cubism to Classicism, very close to the time of the birth of his son, Paulo. The oil on canvas painting depicts two well-dressed boys reading a letter. The boys have downcast expressions as they read. One boy has an oversized hand on the other's shoulder."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Artist_in_His_Museum","descr":"The Artist in His Museum is an 1822 self-portrait by the American artist Charles Willson Peale (1741\u20131827). Toward the end of his career, beginning in 1822, he painted seven self-portraits that together formed the final motif of his art and the final flourishing of his talent. The Artist in His Museum is a large-scale oil-on-canvas work painted in about two months, and is the most emblematic of Peale's many self-portraits. Peale was a naturalist as well as a painter. In 1784 he founded the Philadelphia Museum, situated at the time of the painting in the Pennsylvania State House. The curation of the museum dominated his career from that point; he would on occasion announce his retirement from painting or his return to it. In 1822 he was asked by the museum's trustees to paint a full-length portrait of himself for the museum. The 81-year-old artist endeavored to \"not only make it a lasting monument of my art as a Painter, but also that the design should be expressive, that I bring forth into public view, the beauties of Nature and Art, the rise & progress of the Museum. \" He further said, \"I wish it may excite some admiration, otherwise my labor is lost, except that it is a good likeness. \" Peale's determination to honor his career is reflected in his having painted two preliminary versions of The Artist, unusual for an artist who took pride in producing likenesses with little preparatory work."},{"label":"DBpedia:Fano_Altarpiece","descr":"Fano Altarpiece is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino, executed in 1497, and housed in the church of Santa Maria Nuova, Fano, central Italy. It also includes a lunette with a Piet\u00e0 and several predella panels. Perugino had already painted an Annunciation in 1488-1490. Several scholars have supposed that a young Raphael collaborated on the predella."},{"label":"DBpedia:Jacopo_Pesaro_being_presented_by_Pope_Alexander_VI_to_Saint_Peter","descr":"Jacopo Pesaro being presented by Pope Alexander VI to Saint Peter is a painting by Titian, now housed at the Royal Museum of Fine Arts in Antwerp. It is signed \"Titiano F. C.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Metaphysical_Interior_with_Biscuits","descr":"Metaphysical Interior with Biscuits (1916) is a painting by the Greek-Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. It is one of the earliest editions in a series of works that extended late into de Chirico\u2019s career. Like the others in this series, this painting depicts a room that is cluttered with objects in a surreal arrangement. In this case the main focus is a panel on which is mounted several biscuits (crackers) that are arranged to resemble an abstract face. Behind this panel is a picture in an irregularly shaped frame. The image in the frame is an architectural scene in the style of de Chirico\u2019s earlier work."},{"label":"DBpedia:Syndics_of_the_Drapers'_Guild","descr":"The Sampling Officials, also called Syndics of the Drapers' Guild, is a 1662 oil painting by Rembrandt. It is currently owned by the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam. It has been described as his \"last great collective portrait\". The painting appears on the packaging of Dutch Masters cigars."},{"label":"DBpedia:Deux_fillettes,_fond_jaune_et_rouge","descr":"Deux fillettes, fond jaune et rouge (Two Girls in a Yellow and Red Interior) (1947), oil on canvas, 61 x 49.8\u00a0cm (24 x 19 5\/8\u00a0inches) is a painting by Henri Matisse in the collection of the Barnes Foundation, Merion, Pennsylvania. Alfred Barnes became one of Matisse's most important patrons. In addition to a commissioned mural in 1932 Dance II, 1932 Barnes acquired many paintings and drawings by Matisse. Pierre Matisse who was Matisse's son living in New York was instrumental in facilitating Barnes in purchasing works from his father. During the early-to-mid-1940s Matisse was in poor health. Eventually by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. This painting in the Barnes collection is an example of one of the final group of oil paintings in Matisse's career."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Plum_Blossoms","descr":"The Plum Blossoms is a 1948 painting by Henri Matisse."},{"label":"DBpedia:Three_Flags","descr":"Three Flags is a 1958 painting by American artist Jasper Johns. Done in encaustic (wax and pigment) on canvas, the work consists of three concentric American flags, depicted in their usual red, white and blue colors, with 48 white stars in a blue canton on a field of thirteen alternating red and white stripes. A total of 84 white stars are visible from the three layers, reversing the usual 48 stars representing the then U.S. states (preceding Alaska and Hawaii) of the U.S. flag between 1912 and 1959. The three flags exist in a tiered relationship to one another, with three canvases of decreasing size stacked on top of each other, each progressively approximately 25% smaller than the one below, creating a three dimensional work. In a sense, the perspective is reversed, with the smaller paintings projecting out towards the viewer. Only the topmost smallest painting is fully viewable; the two behind are only partially viewable. The painting was acquired by the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York City for $1 million in 1980, to celebrate its 50th anniversary."},{"label":"DBpedia:A_Huguenot","descr":"A Huguenot, on St. Bartholomew's Day, Refusing to Shield Himself from Danger by Wearing the Roman Catholic Badge (1852) is a painting by John Everett Millais. The long title is usually abbreviated to A Huguenot or A Huguenot on St Bartholomew's Day. It depicts a pair of young lovers in an embrace. The familiar subject is given a dramatic twist because the \"embrace\" is in fact an attempt by the girl to get her beloved to wear a white armband, declaring his allegiance to Roman Catholicism. The young man gently pulls the armband off with the same hand with which he embraces the girl. The incident refers to the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre in 1572 when French Protestants were massacred in Paris, leading to other massacres elsewhere in France. A small number of Protestants escaped from the city by wearing white armbands. Millais had initially planned simply to depict lovers, but had been persuaded by his Pre-Raphaelite colleague William Holman Hunt that the subject was too trite. After seeing Giacomo Meyerbeer's opera Les Huguenots, which tells the story of the massacre, Millais adapted the painting to refer to the event. In the opera the character Valentine also attempts unsuccessfully to get her lover Raoul to wear the armband. The choice of a pro-Protestant subject was also significant because the Pre-Raphaelites had previously been attacked for their alleged sympathies to the Oxford Movement and to Catholicism. Some of the flowers depicted in the scene may have been chosen because of the contemporary interest in the so-called language of flowers. The blue Canterbury Bells at the left, for example, can stand for faith and constancy. The painting was exhibited with Ophelia in 1852, and helped to change attitudes towards the Pre-Raphaelites. Tom Taylor wrote an extremely positive review in Punch. The painting was reproduced as an engraving, which became Millais's first major popular success. As a result Millais went on to produce a number of other paintings on similar subjects."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Misanthrope_(Bruegel)","descr":"The Misanthrope is a tempera-on-canvas by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1568. It is currently held and exhibited at the National Museum of Capodimonte in Naples, Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:Vision_of_Saint_Jerome","descr":"The Vision of Saint Jerome is a painting by the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino, executed in 1526-1527. It is housed in the National Gallery, London, United Kingdom."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Sacrament_of_the_Last_Supper","descr":"The Sacrament of the Last Supper is a painting by Salvador Dal\u00ed. Completed in 1955, after nine months of work, it remains one of his most popular compositions. Since its arrival at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. in 1955, it replaced Renoir's A Girl with a Watering Can as the most popular piece in the museum. The combination of a classic Christian theme with the jarring techniques of Surrealism captures the eye, as Dali was able to do repeatedly with such works as The Temptation of St. Anthony, Christ of Saint John of the Cross, Crucifixion or Corpus Hypercubus, The Madonna of Port Lligat, Nuclear cross, and The Ecumenical Council, among others. The composition was laid out using the Golden Ratio."},{"label":"DBpedia:Madonna_of_the_Candelabra","descr":"The Madonna of the Candelabra is a Madonna painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael, dating to about 1513 and is in the collection of the Walters Art Museum in Baltimore. Painted during his Roman period, this tondo Madonna of the Virgin and Child employs a rare motif of flanking candelabra that was derived from representations of ancient Roman emperors. Through this reference to the rulers of antiquity, Raphael alludes to Christ's and Mary's roles as the king and queen of Heaven. Raphael was famed for his graceful style. which combined the study of classical sculpture and nature. The chiaroscuro effects (modeling in light and shade) and gentle coloring give the figures a soft, delicate appearance. The painting relies heavily on the participation of Raphael's workshop, and the two angels certainly were done by his assistants. This was the first Madonna painted by Raphael to enter a North American collection. It was purchased by Henry Walters in 1901. The central portion of the painting was issued as the traditional holiday first class Christmas stamp for 2011 by the United States Postal Service. The stamp was released on October 13, 2011 in New York, New York."},{"label":"DBpedia:Terranuova_Madonna","descr":"The Madonna with Child, St. John and a Child Saint is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael, who finished it around 1504-1505. It is also known as Madonna Terranuova as it belonged to the Italian Dukes of Terranuova, from whom it went to Berlin's Staatliche Museen, where it can still be seen, in 1854."},{"label":"DBpedia:Sylvette","descr":"Sylvette is the title of the portrait of a young woman with the pony tail painted by Pablo Picasso. The model for the painting was (Lydia) Sylvette David, also known by her married name Lydia Corbett, a French woman who worked in a pottery studio near Picasso's studio in Vallauris, in the summer of 1953. Finding her appearance appealing, Picasso created 40 works inspired by her. Sylvette's portrait from 2 May 1954 is one of the last of a long series. Picasso's grandson Olivier Widmaier Picasso told the Chicago Sun-Times in 2004 that Sylvette was also the subject of the monumental Chicago Picasso, which had been a matter of curiosity since it was unveiled. She was said to have been an inspiration for actress Brigitte Bardot and the Roger Vadim film And God Created Woman. In 1998 Barron's published Picasso and the Girl With a Ponytail by Laurence Anholt\u2014a children's book in which a shy teenager named Sylvette meets Picasso in Vallauris and becomes his model."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Chocolate_Girl","descr":"The Chocolate Girl is one of the most prominent pastels of Swiss artist Jean-\u00c9tienne Liotard, showing a chocolate-serving maid. The girl carries a tray with a porcelain chocolate mug and a glass of water. Liotard's contemporaries classed The Chocolate Girl as his masterpiece. On 3 February 1745 Francesco Algarotti bought the painting in Venice form Liotard. In an unknown year (between 1747 and 1754?) the painting became part of the collection of August III of Poland. In a letter dated 13 February 1751 to his friend Pierre-Jean Mariette he wrote: \u201c I have bought a pastel picture about three feet high by the celebrated Liotard. It shows a young German chamber-maid in profile, carrying a tray with a glass of water and a cup of chocolate. The picture is almost devoid of shadows, with a pale background, the light being furnished by two windows reflected in the glass. It is painted in half-tones with imperceptible graduations of light and with a perfect modelling... and although it is a European picture it could appeal to the Chinese who, as you know, are sworn enemies of shadows. With regard to the perfection of the work, it is a Holbein in pastel. \u201d Since 1855 the painting with the serving maid from Vienna, who might have been a certain Nannerl Baldauf, has been exposed in the Gem\u00e4ldegalerie Alte Meister, Dresden. Around 1900, La Belle Chocolati\u00e8re served as inspiration for the commercial illustration of the \"nurse\" that appeared on Droste's cocoa tins. This was most probably a work of the commercial artist Jan (Johannes) Musset. According to Droste, \"The illustration indicated the wholesome effect of chocolate milk and became inextricably bound with the name Droste. \" In 1862 the American Baker's Chocolate Company obtained the rights to use the painting. During World War II the Germans transported it to K\u00f6nigstein Fortress. The delicate painting managed to survive the cold and dampness in K\u00f6nigstein Fortress and brought back to Dresden after the Germans retreated from advancing Soviet troops. Theories concerning the girl's head-dress run from a cap cover to an echo of the colourful regional caps. The girl's apron features a small bodice."},{"label":"DBpedia:Modern_Rome_%E2%80%93_Campo_Vaccino","descr":"Modern Rome \u2013 Campo Vaccino is a landscape by British artist J. M. W. Turner completed in 1839. It is Turner's final painting of Rome and had been in the possession of the family of the 5th Earl of Rosebery since 1878, until the painting came to auction, 7 July 2010. It was bought by the J. Paul Getty Museum, Los Angeles, and was subject to an export bar to allow a British gallery time to attempt to match the Getty's bid. The painting is now on view at the Getty Center."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Death_of_Procris","descr":"The Death of Procris, A Satyr mourning over a Nymph or simply A Mythological Subject are names given to an unsigned, undated panel painting in the National Gallery in London, United Kingdom, securely attributed to Piero di Cosimo (who never signed his works). Its date is uncertain, and its subject has been a matter of dispute. The name The Death of Procris has been used since the 19th century, and is supposed to have been inspired by Ovid's tale of the death of Procris at the hands of her husband Cephalus, in Metamorphoses VII. The National Gallery has rejected this title since at least Cecil Gould's catalogue of 1951, since when it has preferred to describe the subject as \"A Mythological Subject\" or \"A Satyr mourning over a Nymph\". Despite the uncertainty surrounding the subject matter, the painting, which shows a satyr mourning over the body of a young woman, has been one of the most popular works by Piero di Cosimo. Erwin Panofsky was mesmerized by the \"strange lure emanating from the picture\", and other commentators have admired its \"hazy atmosphere of a waking dream\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Long_Engagement","descr":"The Long Engagement is a painting by the Pre-Raphaelite artist Arthur Hughes which was created between 1854 and 1859. The painting was originally titled \"Orlando\". The painting depicts a curate and his fianc\u00e9e in a woodland setting. The title refers to middle class social conventions of the time, in particular the fact that the parents of a girl engaged to a poorly paid curate would typically not allow the marriage until he had secured a more remunerative position - i.e. within the church hierarchy. The girl is depicted looking at her own name (Amy) carved, some while ago, into the trunk of the tree by her fianc\u00e9 as an expression of his love. The carving, however, is about to be covered by rambling ivy - growing up the trunk; ethereal youthful passion is becoming lost to lassiez-faire worldly capitalist demands. It can be said that this symbolism reflects the stark realities of late 1850s and 1860s Victorian England, which certainly is the observation made by English historian A. N. Wilson. In his book The Victorians, Wilson makes the following observation and analysis of the significance of The Long Engagement: It depicts an emotional predicament stemming directly from an economic situation. The prosperity which had created the vast bourgeoisie with its gradations from lower to upper middle class had also created a code. You could not marry, and maintain the position in society to which you aspired, until you had a certain amount of money in the bank. (p. \u00a0260) Hughes had finished an earlier painting, April Love, of a similar theme. The Long Engagement was given to the Birmingham Museum & Art Gallery in the will of a \"Dr Griffiths\" in 1902, and has remained in the collection to present day."},{"label":"DBpedia:Cornflowers_(painting)","descr":"Cornflowers is a painting by the Russian artist Sergei Ivanovich Osipov (1915\u20131985), executed in 1976 and related to his most famous works in the genre of still life."},{"label":"DBpedia:Miss_Amelia_Van_Buren","descr":"Miss Amelia Van Buren or Portrait of Amelia C. Van Buren is a ca. 1891 painting by the American artist Thomas Eakins (1844-1916), now in the The Phillips Collection. It depicts Amelia Van Buren (c. 1856-1942), an artist who studied with Eakins, and was called \"one of his most gifted pupils. \" The painting is considered one of Eakins's finest works."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Crucifixion_of_Saint_Andrew_(Caravaggio)","descr":"The Crucifixion of Saint Andrew (1607) is a painting by the Italian Baroque master Caravaggio. It is in the collection of the Cleveland Museum of Art, which acquired it from the Arnaiz collection in Madrid in 1976, having been taken to Spain by the Spanish Viceroy of Naples in 1610. Giovanni Bellori, in his 1672 biography of Caravaggio, mentions a Crucifixion of Saint Andrew which is presumably this picture. From the 17th century St Andrew was shown on a diagonal cross, but Caravaggio would have been influenced by the 16th century belief that he was crucified on a normal Latin cross. The saint was supposed to have survived two days on the cross, preaching to the crowd and eventually converting them so that they demanded his release. But when the Roman governor - the man in the plumed hat at lower right - ordered him taken down his men were struck by a miraculous paralysis, in answer to the saint's prayer that he be allowed to undergo martyrdom."},{"label":"DBpedia:Virgin_Annunciate_(Antonello_da_Messina,_Palermo)","descr":"Virgin Annunciate is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Antonello da Messina, housed in the Regional Gallery of Palazzo Abatellis, Palermo, southern Italy. Probably painted in Sicily in 1476, it shows Mary interrupted at her reading by the Angel of the Annunciation."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Bacchanal_of_the_Andrians","descr":"The Bacchanal of the Andrians is an oil painting by Titian, dated to 1523\u20131526 and now held at the Museo del Prado in Madrid. It is signed \". [aciebat aciebat]\" and was commissioned by Alfonso I d'Este for his camerini d'alabastro."},{"label":"DBpedia:Andromeda_Chained_to_the_Rocks_(Rembrandt)","descr":"Andromeda Chained to the Rock was painted by Rembrandt in 1631, and is now in the Mauritshuis, in The Hague. Andromeda represents Rembrandt's first full length mythological female nude history painting and is taken from a story in Ovid's Metamorphoses. This story is about the daughter of an Ethiopian king who, as punishment for her mother's boasting, was chained to a rock to be sacrificed to a sea monster that was tormenting the Ethiopian people. Many artists such as Titian have depicted this story by showing Andromeda, her rescuer Perseus, and the sea monster all in the same composition. In this work, Rembrandt shies away from classical conventions by showing her not as a glamorous beauty but as a frightened naturalistic looking girl. No other figure is included, but her alarmed look out of the picture space to the right creates narrative tension. The painting is an example of Rembrandt's rejection of idealized beauty. Since he did not believe true beauty existed naturally, he painted women as he saw them; naturally imperfect and flawed. Rembrandt's subsequent nude mythological paintings from this period Diana Bathing and Dana\u00eb show his evolving portrayal of the nude."},{"label":"DBpedia:Japonaiserie_(Van_Gogh)","descr":"Japonaiserie was the term the Dutch post-impressionist painter Vincent van Gogh used to express the influence of Japanese art. Before 1854 trade with Japan was confined to a Dutch monopoly and Japanese goods imported into Europe were for the most part confined to porcelain and lacquer ware. The Convention of Kanagawa put an end to the 200 year old Japanese foreign policy of Seclusion and opened up trade between Japan and the West. Artists such as Manet, Degas and Monet, followed by Van Gogh, began to collect the cheap colour wood-block prints called ukiyo-e prints. For a while Vincent and his brother Theo dealt in these prints and they eventually amassed hundreds of them (now housed in the Van Gogh Museum, Amsterdam). In a letter to Theo dated about 5 June 1888 Vincent remarks About staying in the south, even if it\u2019s more expensive \u2014 Look, we love Japanese painting, we\u2019ve experienced its influence \u2014 all the Impressionists have that in common \u2014 [so why not go to Japan], in other words, to what is the equivalent of Japan, the south? So I believe that the future of the new art still lies in the south after all. A month later he wrote, All my work is based to some extent on Japanese art..."},{"label":"DBpedia:Small_Cowper_Madonna","descr":"The Small Cowper Madonna is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael, depicting Mary and Child, in a typical Italian countryside."},{"label":"DBpedia:Taste_in_High_Life","descr":"Taste in High Life is an oil-on-canvas painting (engraving seen on the right) from around 1742, by William Hogarth. The version seen on the right was engraved by Samuel Phillips in 1798, under commission from John Boydell for a posthumous edition of Hogarth's works, but Phillips's final, third state was not published until 1808."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Juan_de_Pareja","descr":"The Portrait of Juan de Pareja is a painting by Spanish artist Diego Vel\u00e1zquez, dating from around 1650 and currently on display at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, United States."},{"label":"DBpedia:Adoration_of_the_Child_(Correggio)","descr":"The Adoration of the Child is an oil on canvas painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Correggio, dating from around 1526 and housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence, Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:Freedom_of_Worship_(painting)","descr":"Freedom to Worship or Freedom of Worship is one of Four Freedoms paintings by Norman Rockwell that were inspired by United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt in the State of the Union Address, known as Four Freedoms, he delivered to the 77th United States Congress on January 6, 1941. The other paintings in this series were, Freedom of Speech Freedom from Fear Freedom from Want Freedom to Worship was published in the February 27, 1943 Issue of The Saturday Evening Post with a matching essay by Will Durant as part of the Four Freedoms series. Rockwell felt that this and Freedom of Speech were the most successful of the set. Early versions of this painting involved a group of patrons at a barbershop of varying religions and races. The problem was painting easily recognizable depictions of different religions and races because there was little agreement on what a person of certain religions should look like. The image is commonly enhanced and often darkened in reproduction because it uses a color combination of soft greys, beiges and browns. In addition, the paint was applied thinly, which allows the weave of the canvas to contribute to the image."},{"label":"DBpedia:St._Augustine_in_His_Study_(Carpaccio)","descr":"St. Augustine in His Study (also called Vision of St. Augustine) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Vittore Carpaccio housed in the Scuola di San Giorgio degli Schiavoni of Venice, northern Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:Perseus_Freeing_Andromeda_(Rubens)","descr":"Perseus Freeing Andromeda is a painting by the Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens, executed in 1607. It is housed in the Gem\u00e4ldegalerie of Berlin, Germany. The painting belonged the M. Pasquier collection in Rouen, which was auctioned in 1755 in Paris. In the 18th century it entered the collection of Frederick II of Prussia and, in 1830, it became part of the Berlinese museum collection. The scene is similar to another Perseus Freeing Andromeda by Rubens now in the Hermitage Museum of St. Petersburg. It depicts the Greek mythology hero Perseus in the act of freeing Andromeda, after defeating the sea monster which kept her as prisoner. Perseus, wearing helmet, cuirass and cloak, is sided by two puttoes, and one of them is helping him in removing the ropes that tie Andromeda to the rock. On the left, two puttoes are playing with Pegasus, Perseus' winged horse."},{"label":"DBpedia:Martyrdom_of_Four_Saints","descr":"The Martyrdom of Four Saints is an oil on canvas painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Correggio, dating from around 1524 and housed in the Galleria Nazionale of Parma, Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Distrest_Poet","descr":"The Distrest Poet is an oil painting produced sometime around 1736 by the British artist William Hogarth. Reproduced as an etching and engraving, it was published in 1741 from a third state plate produced in 1740. The scene was probably inspired by Alexander Pope's satirical poem The Dunciad. It depicts a scene in a small, dingy attic room where a poet sits at his desk in the dormer and, scratching his head, stares at the papers on the desk before him, evidently looking for inspiration to complete the poem he is writing. Near him sits his wife darning clothes, surprised by the entrance of a milkmaid, who impatiently demands payment of debts."},{"label":"DBpedia:Living_Still_Life","descr":"Living Still Life (1956) is a hand oil painting on canvas by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dal\u00ed. The painting was originally known as Nature Morte Vivante and is considered to be one of Dal\u00ed's masterworks. Dal\u00ed described the work as illustrating \"the decomposition of a fruit dish. \" While the picture can be termed a still life, Dal\u00ed incorporates irony by making it evident that nothing in the image is actually still. Even the knife on the table, for example, although not seemingly moving at all is interpreted by the human brain to be in motion. The mind infers that no everyday object can simply hover in the air and that gravity must be pulling down on it; therefore, the knife must be in a falling motion."},{"label":"DBpedia:Menin_Gate_at_Midnight","descr":"Menin Gate at Midnight (also known as Ghosts of Menin Gate) is a 1927 painting by Australian artist Will Longstaff. The painting depicts a host of ghostly soldiers marching across a field in front of the Menin Gate war memorial. The painting is part of the collection of the Australian War Memorial in Canberra. Longstaff painted the work after attending the unveiling of the Menin Gate memorial, at Ypres in Belgium, on 24 July 1927. The memorial commemorated those men of the British Empire, including Australia, who died in the battles of the First World War around the town. Walking around the streets of Ypres after the ceremony, Longstaff was said to have seen a \"vision of steel-helmeted spirits rising from the moonlit cornfields around him\". Returning to London, Longstaff was reported to have painted the work in a single session, while \"still under psychic influence\". The painting was immediately popular. It was purchased by Lord Woolavington for 2,000 Guineas and presented to the Australian government. After a royal command viewing for George V and the Royal family at Buckingham Palace, the painting was displayed in Manchester and Glasgow. It was then taken around Australia, where record crowds paid to view the work. Longstaff oversaw the making of 2,000 prints and 400 of these were given to the nascent Australian War Memorial to sell to raise funds. The success of this work lead Longstaff to paint three later companion pieces with a similar ghostly, spiritualist theme: Immortal Shrine (Eternal Silence) \u2013 showing ghostly soldiers marching past the Cenotaph in London on Remembrance Day Ghosts of Vimy Ridge (1931) \u2013 depicting men of the Canadian Corps at Vimy Ridge. Carillon (1932) \u2013 with New Zealand soldiers in Belgium hearing the bells in their native country."},{"label":"DBpedia:Malaya_Sadovaya_(painting)","descr":"Malaya Sadovaya street is a painting executed by the Russian artist Alexander M. Semionov (1922\u20131984) in 1979. In the painting the artist has depicted a view of Malaya Sadovaya Street in Leningrad at the end of the 1970s."},{"label":"DBpedia:Two_Venetian_Ladies","descr":"Two Venetian Ladies is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Vittore Carpaccio. The painting, believed to be a quarter of the original work, was executed around 1490 and shows two unknown Venetian ladies. The top portion of the panel, called Hunting on the Lagoon is in the Getty Museum, and another matching panel is missing. The painting was formerly considered to show two courtesans. Modern art historians think them more likely members to be of the patrician Torella family, as suggested by their fine clothes and the pearl necklaces, but academic debate continues, as with other similar Venetian paintings of the period. Several objects - the white kerchief, the pearls and the animals are symbols of chastity. Note the chopines, or platform clogs, on the left. Another painted panel, now in the Getty Museum http:\/\/www. getty. edu\/art\/gettyguide\/artObjectDetails?artobj=801, was published in 1944, and it was later realized that this is part of the same work, fitting above this part: it portrays several boats in a lagoon, and would explain the meaning of the scene, as two women awaiting their husbands' return after an expedition hunting, or fishing with cormorants, in the Venetian lagoon. http:\/\/www. getty. edu\/art\/gettyguide\/artObjectDetails?handle=tech&artobj=801&artview=55515 This discovery was verified by an in depth technical analysis, comparing the two fragmentary panels. Another panel the same size as these two combined would have been on the left; probably the two were hinged together to make a diptych, or a folding door or shutter. The Getty panel has an illusionistic letter rack painted on the back of the panel, which was presumably matched on this panel. This appears to be the earliest small-scale trompe-l'\u0153il painting since antiquity."},{"label":"DBpedia:A_Just_View_of_the_British_Stage","descr":"A Just View of the British Stage or Three Heads are Better than One is an unsigned 1724 engraving attributed to the English artist William Hogarth. It is a satirical view of the management of British plays and mocks the subjects as degenerate. It forms part of an attack on the tastes of the theatre which Hogarth mounted in earnest between 1723 with Masquerades and Operas and 1727 with Masquerade Ticket (and which would continue to some extent in later works including Charmers of the Age in 1740-41)."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_navigator's_hope","descr":"The navigator's hope is a series of paintings made by Joan Mir\u00f3 between 1968 and 1973, half of which now belong to the permanent collection of the Fundaci\u00f3 Joan Mir\u00f3 in Barcelona, thanks to a donation by Pilar Juncosa. The rest of the series are preserved in various private collections."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Gleaners","descr":"The Gleaners (Des glaneuses) is an oil painting by Jean-Fran\u00e7ois Millet completed in 1857. It depicts three peasant women gleaning a field of stray grains of wheat after the harvest. The painting is famous for featuring in a sympathetic way what were then the lowest ranks of rural society; this was received poorly by the French upper classes."},{"label":"DBpedia:La_belle_jardini%C3%A8re","descr":"La belle jardini\u00e8re, also known as Madonna and Child with Saint John the Baptist, is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael. It was commissioned by the Sienese patrician Fabrizio Sergardi and shows Mary, Christ and the young John the Baptist. It is currently in the Louvre Museum in Paris, France. This painting is one of the most famous Madonna portraits of Italian Renaissance painter, Raphael. Raphael studied the works of Leonardo da Vinci while in Florence and applied some of Leonardo's techniques to his own painting. Raphael's use of contrasting light and darks, and the relaxed, informal pose of the Madonna illustrates Leonardo's influence on La belle jardini\u00e8re."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Fortune_Teller_(Caravaggio)","descr":"The Fortune Teller is a painting by Italian Baroque artist Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio. It exists in two versions, both by Caravaggio, the first from 1594, the second from 1595. The dates in both cases are disputed."},{"label":"DBpedia:Piet%C3%A0_(Perugino)","descr":"Piet\u00e0 is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino, executed around 1483-1493, and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Cardinal_Alessandro_Farnese","descr":"The Portrait of Cardinal Alessandro Farnese is a portrait of cardinal Alessandro Farnese by Raphael, produced in 1509-11. The cardinal walks past a window with a bright foreground into a dark hall. His delicate right hand holds a letter. The painting resides at the Museo Nazionale di Capodimonte in Naples."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Madonna_of_the_Rabbit","descr":"The Madonna of the Rabbit is an oil painting by Titian, dated to 1530 and now held in the Louvre in Paris. It is signed \"Ticianus f. \" and is named after the white rabbit (a symbol of fertility and - due to its whiteness - of Mary's purity and the mystery of the Incarnation) held in Mary's left hand."},{"label":"DBpedia:Virgin_Enthroned_with_Saints_(Signorelli)","descr":"The Virgin Enthroned with Saints is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Luca Signorelli, dated to 1491 and housed in the Pinacoteca Comunale (Municipal Art Gallery) of Volterra, central Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:Decemviri_Altarpiece","descr":"Decemviri Altarpiece is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino, executed in 1495-1496, and housed in the Pinacoteca Vaticana in Rome. The work was commissioned by the Decemviri (\"Ten Men\") of Perugia for the chapel in the Palazzo dei Priori, and was executed 1495 to 1496. It was originally surmounted by a Piet\u00e0 (87 x 90\u00a0cm), now at the Galleria Nazionale dell'Umbria."},{"label":"DBpedia:Beneath_the_Snow_Encumbered_Branches","descr":"Beneath the Snow Encumbered Branches is a 1901 oil on canvas work by Scottish painter Joseph Farquharson. Its whereabouts were unknown between it going on public display in 1901 and the 1960s, when it was bought by a private collector. It reappeared on public display again in 2008, when it was sold at auction, selling for over twice its initial estimate and remaining in private hands in Scotland. It has become well known, as its likeness is used on a popular Hallmark Christmas card."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Reading_(Fantin-Latour_painting)","descr":"The Reading (La Lecture in French) is a painting by French painter Henri Fantin-Latour in 1877. It was acquired in 1901 by the city of Lyon and by the Mus\u00e9e des Beaux-Arts de Lyon where it is currently conserved. The painting depicts two women sitting in a room. The woman on the right is reading a book, leaning on a table covered with a decorative patterned tablecloth and a vase with some flowers. The other woman, on the left, seems not to listen to the reading as she appears to be distracted. Both the background wall, which holds a large part of the painting, and the black dresses of both women are very austere. The theme of the work can evoke the escape of women by reading. The woman on the left represents the artist's sister-in-law, Charlotte Dubourg. The painting was exhibited in 1877 at the Salon (Paris), in 1878 at the summer exhibition of the Royal Academy in London, and in 1900 at the Soci\u00e9t\u00e9 des Beaux-Arts in Brussels. During the Biennial of Contemporary Art in 2009 in Lyon, artist Wong Hoy Cheong reinterpreted the painting in a photograph of Muslim women wearing a burqa."},{"label":"DBpedia:Grande_Odalisque","descr":"Grande Odalisque, also known as Une Odalisque or La Grande Odalisque, is an oil painting of 1814 by Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres depicting an odalisque, or concubine. Ingres' contemporaries considered the work to signify Ingres' break from Neoclassicism, indicating a shift toward exotic Romanticism. Grande Odalisque attracted wide criticism when it was first shown. It has been especially noted for the elongated proportions and lack of anatomical realism. The work is housed in the Louvre, Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Miracle_of_the_Holy_Fire_(painting)","descr":"The Miracle of the Holy Fire (1892\u201399) is a painting by William Holman Hunt which depicts the Greek Orthodox rite of the Holy Fire in the Church of the Holy Sepulchre Jerusalem. Hunt believed the fire to be a pious fraud which brought Christianity into disrepute. He intended the painting to be a satire in the manner of William Hogarth. Hunt published an elaborate keyplate explaining the identity of the various characters depicted."},{"label":"DBpedia:St._George_(Raphael,_Louvre)","descr":"St. George or St. George and the Dragon is a small painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. It is housed in the Louvre in Paris. A later version of the same subject is the St. George in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Hay_Wain","descr":"The Hay Wain is a painting by John Constable, finished in 1821. The painting depicts a rural scene on the River Stour in Suffolk. It hangs in the National Gallery London, and is regarded as one of the greatest British paintings."},{"label":"DBpedia:Madonna_of_the_Magnificat","descr":"The Madonna of the Magnificat is the painting in a circular tondo form by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, painted in 1481, and now in the Uffizi in Florence. This work portrays the Virgin Mary crowned by two angels. The Child Jesus is keeping in a hand the pomegranate, symbol of the Resurrection. The painting is said to portray the family of Piero de' Medici, de facto lord of Florence from 1464. His wife Lucrezia Tornabuoni as Mary, Lorenzo de' Medici as the young man with the ink-pot, flanked by his brother Giuliano de' Medici who is holding a book. Behind the two boys is Maria, while the two older sisters are holding the crown in the background: Bianca on the left and Nannina on the right. The newborn would be the daughter of Lorenzo, Lucrezia de' Medici."},{"label":"DBpedia:Maest%C3%A0_(Cimabue)","descr":"The Maest\u00e0 is a painting by the Italian artist Cimabue (c. 1240\u20131302), painted around 1280 and housed in Mus\u00e9e du Louvre of Paris, France."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Swimming_Hole","descr":"The Swimming Hole (also known as Swimming and The Old Swimming Hole) is an 1884\u201385 painting by the American artist Thomas Eakins (1844\u20131916), Goodrich catalog #190, in the collection of the Amon Carter Museum in Fort Worth, Texas. Executed in oil on canvas, it depicts six men swimming naked in a lake, and is considered a masterpiece of American painting. According to art historian Doreen Bolger it is \"perhaps Eakins' most accomplished rendition of the nude figure\", and has been called \"the most finely designed of all his outdoor pictures\". Since the Renaissance, the human body has been considered both the basis of artists' training and the most challenging subject to depict in art, and the nude was the centerpiece of Eakins' teaching program at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts. For Eakins, this picture was an opportunity to display his mastery of the human form. In this work, Eakins took advantage of an exception to the generally prudish Victorian attitude to nudity: swimming naked was widely accepted, and for males was seen as normal, even in public spaces. Eakins was the first American artist to portray one of the few occasions in 19th-century life when nudity was on display. The Swimming Hole develops themes raised in his earlier work, in particular his treatment of buttocks and his ambiguous treatment of the human form; in some cases it is uncertain as to whether the forms portrayed are male or female. Such themes had earlier been examined in his The Gross Clinic (1875) and William Rush (1877), and would continue to be explored in his paintings of boxers and wrestlers. Although the theme of male bathers was familiar in Western art, having been explored by artists from Michelangelo to Daumier, Eakins' treatment was novel in American art at the time. The Swimming Hole has been \"widely cited as a prime example of homoeroticism in American art\". In 2008, the art critic Tom Lubbock described Eakins' work as: a classic of American painting. It shows a scene of healthy, manly, outdoor activity: a group of young fellows having stripped off for a dip. It is based on the swimming excursions that were enjoyed by the artist and his students. Eakins himself appears in the water at bottom right\u00a0\u2013 in signature position, so to speak.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Cromwell_on_his_Farm","descr":"Cromwell on his Farm (1874) is a painting by Ford Madox Brown which depicts Oliver Cromwell observing a bonfire on his farm and thinking of a passage in the Book of Psalms: \"Lord, how long wilt thy hide thyself - forever? And shall thy wrath burn like fire?\" (Psalm 89). The words are inscribed on the painting's frame along with a quotation from one of Cromwell's speeches, in which he describes his life before entering into politics: \"living neither in any considerable height, nor yet in obscurity, I did endeavour to discharge the duty of an honest man.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Flight_into_Egypt_(Elsheimer)","descr":"The Flight into Egypt is an oil-on-copper cabinet painting by the German artist Adam Elsheimer dating from about 1609, while he was in Rome. Like many other artists before and after him, Elsheimer has depicted the biblical Flight into Egypt, in which Joseph, Mary, and Jesus seek refuge from possible persecution by Herod. For its innovative fusing of religious and landscape elements, and its detailed juxtaposition of light and darkness, The Flight into Egypt is one of Elsheimer's most well-known and lauded works. It is also likely his last painting, for he died a year later. Elsheimer's treatment is unique in placing the Holy Family in a nocturnal setting, true to the biblical description. The darkness creates opposing feelings of intimacy and fear of the unknown. The painting channels the mysteries of night, pondered by humans for centuries, into this moment of the Holy Family seeking refuge. There are four sources of light in the painting: the moon is accurately depicted and reflects off the calm water. There is a fire near the shepherds at left, where the family is headed. At the centre of the composition, Joseph holds a torch that illuminates Mary and the infant, who are riding an ass. The heavily treed landscape behind them is almost black, its outline forming a diagonal across the sky and completely containing the foreground figures. The diagonal is echoed in the night sky by the intricate band of the Milky Way, and detailed configurations of stars are seen, including Ursa Major at far left. Elsheimer is thought to be the first painter to accurately depict constellations. In addition to disclosing Elsheimer's interest in scientific topics, the appearance of the Milky Way has a spiritual connotation\u2014it symbolized the path to heaven beginning in the Middle Ages. Elsheimer's sky, wrote art historian R.H. Wilenski, \"is no longer a blackcloth but a symbol for boundless space\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_the_Artist's_Mother_(Van_Gogh)","descr":"Portrait of Artist's Mother is a 1888 painting by Vincent van Gogh of his mother, Anna Carbentus van Gogh, drawn from a black-and-white photograph. Van Gogh's introduction to art was through his mother, herself an amateur artist. After years of strained relations with family members, Van Gogh excitedly shared some of his works he thought his mother would appreciate most, of flowers and natural settings. In this painting, Van Gogh captures his mother's dignified and proud nature."},{"label":"DBpedia:Bonaparte_Visiting_the_Plague_Victims_of_Jaffa","descr":"Bonaparte Visits the Plague Stricken in Jaffa (French: Bonaparte visitant les pestif\u00e9r\u00e9s de Jaffa) is an 1804 painting commissioned by Napoleon Bonaparte from Antoine-Jean Gros to portray an event during the Egyptian Campaign. The scene shows Napoleon during a striking scene which occurred in Jaffa in 1799. It was an attempt to quell unsavory rumours after Napoleon ordered that fifty incurable plague victims in Jaffa be poisoned (without complete success) during his retreat from his Syrian expedition. This is part of the collection of French paintings at the Louvre."},{"label":"DBpedia:Gastrotypographicalassemblage","descr":"Gastrotypographicalassemblage is a 35 feet wide by 8.5 feet tall work of art designed by Lou Dorfsman to decorate the cafeteria in Eero Saarinen's CBS Building on 52nd Street and Sixth Avenue, New York City, New York, USA. As the senior vice president and creative director for marketing communications and design for the Columbia Broadcasting System, Dorfsman was responsible for all aspects of the building's graphics, designating the type, design and spacing for wall clocks, elevator buttons, and elevator inspection stickers. He designed what he called Gastrotypographicalassemblage for the building's cafeteria, using varied typefaces to list all of the foods offered to patrons in hand-milled wood type. The completed work was based on ideas conceived in the mid-1960s. The project was ultimately completed in 1966 with assistance from graphic designer Herb Lubalin, and Tom Carnase, who crafted the typography from Dorfsman's original design. Dorfsman considered this work to be \"his magnum opus, his gift to the world\". Gastrotypographicalassemblage was discarded in the early 1990s by CBS, but the work's nine panels were retrieved by designer Nick Fasciano. It was in an advanced state of disrepair, aggravated by improper storage. The piece was acquired by the Atlanta-based Center for Design Study, which has undertaken an effort to raise the funds needed to support the restoration of the work of art. The group's goal is to restore Gastrotypographicalassemblage and to use it in a permanent traveling exhibition focusing on historical American design, and using the piece as an example of the value of intelligently applied design."},{"label":"DBpedia:Solly_Madonna","descr":"The Solly Madonna by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael was painted somewhere between 1500 and 1504. An early work, it clearly shows the influence of Raphael's teacher Perugino. Two motifs in this work would recur in later Madonnas by Raphael. The virgin Mary is reading a book, as in the Madonna and Child in the Norton Simon Museum, the Connestabile Madonna, the Madonna Colonna and the Madonna del cardellino. As in that last painting a small bird, a Goldfinch, is part of the scene. The painting is located in the Gem\u00e4ldegalerie, Berlin. It is called the Solly Madonna because it was owned by the British banker and art collector Edward Solly (1776\u20131848)."},{"label":"DBpedia:Punishment_of_Marsyas","descr":"The Punishment of Marsyas (also known as The Flaying of Marsyas) is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance artist Titian, executed around 1570-1576. It is currently housed in National Museum in Krom\u011b\u0159\u00ed\u017e, in the Czech Republic. It's Titian's last finished work."},{"label":"DBpedia:Antea_(Parmigianino)","descr":"Antea (also known as Portrait of a Young Woman) is a painting by the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino, executed around 1524-1527."},{"label":"DBpedia:Wolfeboro_I","descr":""},{"label":"DBpedia:Constellations_(Mir%C3%B3)","descr":"Constellations is a series of 23 small paintings on paper, initiated by Joan Mir\u00f3 in 1939 in Varengeville-sur-Mer and completed in 1941 between Mallorca and Mont-roig del Camp. The Fundaci\u00f3 Joan Mir\u00f3 preserves a work of this series and The Morning Star, one of the most important pieces of the series. The painter gave to his wife and she later donated to the Foundation."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Abbey_in_the_Oakwood","descr":"The Abbey in the Oakwood (German: Abtei im Eichwald) is an oil painting by Caspar David Friedrich. It was painted between 1809 and 1810 in Dresden and was first shown together with the painting The Monk by the Sea in the Berlin Academy exhibition of 1810. On Friedrich's request The Abbey in the Oakwood was hung beneath The Monk by the Sea. After the exhibition both pictures were bought by king Frederick Wilhelm III for his collection. Today the paintings hang side by side in the Alte Nationalgalerie, Berlin."},{"label":"DBpedia:Feast_of_the_Rosary","descr":"The Feast of the Rosary is a 1506 oil painting by Albrecht D\u00fcrer, now in the National Gallery, Prague, Czech Republic."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Last_Judgment_(Bosch_triptych)","descr":"The Last Judgment is a triptych by Hieronymus Bosch, created after 1482. The Last Judgment 350px Artist Hieronymus Bosch Type Oil-on-wood triptych Location Akademie der Bildenden K\u00fcnste The triptych currently resides at the Academie f\u00fcr Bildenden K\u00fcnste in Vienna. The outside of the shutters are Grisaille on panel, while the inside shutters and center are oil on panel. The left and right panels measure 167.7 x 60\u00a0cm and the center panel measures 164 x 127\u00a0cm. It is not to be confused with either a fragmented piece of art by Bosch under the same title, or another full painting by Bosch or possibly a painter in his workshop. It has many similarities to The Haywain Triptych, the left panel shows the Garden of Eden, at the top God is shown seated in Heaven while the Rebel Angels are cast out of Heaven are transformed into insects. At the bottom, God created Eve out of the rib of Adam, and as the panel goes higher while Eve is tempted by the Serpent and are finally chased by the Angel into the dark forest signifying and dark sinful humanity, in the central panel where Jesus judges the souls while surrounded by the Saints, below is an earth ending by fire, where Demons seize the souls, and on the right panel is Hell where the wicked souls are punished."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Portrait_(painting)","descr":"The Portrait (1935) is a painting by the Belgian surrealist Ren\u00e9 Magritte. This painting is a classic example of the technique that often set Magritte apart from other surrealists. Artists like Dal\u00ed and Ernst usually depicted distorted and dream-like representations of real forms mixed with abstract shapes. Magritte is best known for his realistic depictions of ordinary things made surreal by context or their relationship to each other. This painting depicts an almost photo-realistic table setting with a slice of ham in the center. The scene is made surreal by the presence of an eye staring back at the viewer from the center of the ham. This painting was once part of the private collection of the surrealist painter Kay Sage. In 1956 she donated it as a gift to the Museum of Modern Art in New York."},{"label":"DBpedia:Agony_in_the_Garden_(Perugino)","descr":"Piet\u00e0 is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino, executed around 1483-1493, and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portinari_Altarpiece","descr":"The Portinari Altarpiece or Portinari Triptych (c. 1475) is an oil on wood triptych painting by the Flemish painter Hugo van der Goes representing the Adoration of the shepherds. The work was commissioned for the church of the hospital of Santa Maria Nuova in Florence by the Italian banker Tommaso Portinari, a descendent of the hospital's founder. Portinari lived for more than forty years in Bruges as a representative for the Medici family's bank. Portinari himself is depicted on the left panel with his two sons Antonio and Pigello; his wife Maria di Francesco Baroncelli is shown on the right panel with their daughter Margarita. All, except Pigello, are accompanied by their patron saints: Saint Thomas (with the spear), Saint Anthony (with the bell), Mary Magdalen (with the pot of ointment) and Saint Margaret (with the book and the dragon). In the central panel, three shepherds fall to their knees before the child Jesus. Van der Goes painted these rustic characters very realistically. Kneeling angels surround the Virgin and the Child, who is not in a crib but lies on the ground surrounded by an aureole of golden rays. This unusual representation of the adoration of Jesus is probably based on one of the visions of Saint Bridget of Sweden. In the background, van der Goes painted scenes related to the main subject: on the left panel, Joseph and Mary on the road to Bethlehem; on the central panel (to the right), the shepherds visited by the angel; on the right panel, the Three Magi on the road to Bethlehem. The still life in the foreground, with the two vases of flowers and the sheaf of wheat (which recalls Bethlehem, \"the house of bread\"), probably alludes to the Eucharist and the Passion. The wheat refers to the Last Supper, where Christ broke the bread. The orange lilies symbolize the Passion and the white irises purity, while the purple irises and the columbine stalks represent the seven sorrows of the Virgin. Thus, this scene of the birth of Jesus prefigures the Salvation by his death. When the work arrived in Florence in 1483, it was installed in the Portinari family chapel where it was deeply admired by the Italian artists who saw it, many of whom sought to emulate it. A good example is the Adoration of the Shepherds (1485) which Domenico Ghirlandaio painted in the Sassetti Chapel in the church of Santa Trinita in Florence. However, the naturalistic depiction of the shepherds is already present in Andrea Mantegna's Adoration of the Shepherds, which dates from around 1450."},{"label":"DBpedia:Virgin_of_the_Rocks","descr":"The Virgin of the Rocks (sometimes the Madonna of the Rocks) is the name used for two paintings by Leonardo da Vinci, of the same subject, and of a composition which is identical except for several significant details. The version generally considered the earlier of the two hangs in the Mus\u00e9e du Louvre in Paris and the other in the National Gallery, London. The paintings are both nearly 2 metres (over 6 feet) high and are painted in oils. Both were painted on wooden panel; that in the Louvre has been transferred to canvas. Both paintings show the Madonna and Christ Child with the infant John the Baptist and an angel, in a rocky setting which gives the paintings their usual name. The significant compositional differences are in the gaze and right hand of the angel. There are many minor ways in which the works differ, including the colours, the lighting, the flora, and the way in which sfumato has been used. Although the date of an associated commission is documented, the complete histories of the two paintings are unknown, and lead to speculation about which of the two is earlier. Two further paintings are associated with the commission: side panels each containing an angel playing a musical instrument and completed by associates of Leonardo. These are both in the National Gallery, London."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_a_Carthusian","descr":"Portrait of a Carthusian is a painting in oils on oak panel by the Early Netherlandish painter Petrus Christus in 1446. The work is part of the Jules Bache Collection housed at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. It is regarded as a masterpiece of Early Netherlandish painting and a prominent, early example of Trompe l\u2019oeil."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Adele_Besson","descr":"The portrait of Ad\u00e8le Besson is an oil painting in the Post-Impressionist style made by Auguste Renoir in 1918, representing the wife of George Besson. The couple gave a large bequest to the Museum of Fine Arts in Besan\u00e7on. Their collection consisted of works of contemporary art (early 20th century). The installation of the collection at the Museum caused the expansion of the museum building, including the construction of the central staircase by Louis Miquel. This picture is part of their bequest."},{"label":"DBpedia:Tempi_Madonna_(Raphael)","descr":"The Tempi Madonna is an oil painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. Painted for the Tempi family, it was bought by Ludwig I of Bavaria in 1829. It is housed in the Alte Pinakothek in Munich. It is thought to have been made in 1508, at the end of the artist's Florentine period."},{"label":"DBpedia:Daybreak_(painting)","descr":"Daybreak is a painting by Maxfield Parrish (1870\u20131966) made in 1922. Daybreak is regarded as the most popular art print of the 20th century, based on number of prints made: one for every four American homes. According to the The National Museum of American Illustration, it has outsold Andy Warhol's Campbell's Soup Cans and Da Vinci's Last Supper. It is still in print. Parrish referred to Daybreak as his \"great painting\", the epitome of his work. Measuring 26.5 by 45 inches (\u00a0cm \u00d7\u00a0\u00a0cm), the painting employs a formal layout similar to a stage set, with two feminine figures. Painted using preparatory photographs, the models were his regular models, Kitty Owen, Parrish's daughter Jean, and Susan Lewin. Only two figures appear in the completed painting, though pencil studies indicate that the artist originally intended a third near the righthand column. The composition is arranged on the principle of \"dynamic symmetry\" popularized by Jay Hambidge."},{"label":"DBpedia:Nude_Sitting_on_a_Divan","descr":"Nude Sitting on a Divan (The Beautiful Roman Woman) is an oil on canvas painting by Italian artist Amedeo Modigliani depicting a partially draped woman seated with crossed legs against a warm red background. The work was one of a series of nudes painted by Modigliani in 1917 that created a sensation when exhibited in Paris that year. On November 2, 2010, the painting sold at a New York auction for $68.9 million, a record price for an artwork by Modigliani. The several dozen nudes Modigliani painted between 1916 and 1919 constitute many of his best-known works. Simultaneously abstracted and erotically detailed, they exhibit a formal grace referencing nude figures of the Italian Renaissance while at the same time objectifying their subjects' sexuality; they \"exemplify his position between tradition and modernism\". The nudes of this period are \"displayed boldly, with only the faintest suggestion of setting.... neither demure nor provocative, they are depicted with a degree of objectivity. Yet the uniformly thick, rough application of paint\u2014 as if applied by a sculptor's hand\u2014 is more concerned with mass and the visceral perception of the female body than with titillation and the re-creation of translucent, tactile flesh\". This series of nudes was commissioned by Modigliani's dealer and friend Leopold Zborowski, who lent the artist use of his apartment, supplied models and painting materials, and paid him between fifteen and twenty francs each day for his work. The paintings from this arrangement were thus different from his previous depictions of friends and lovers in that they were funded by Zborowski either for his own collection, as a favor to his friend, or with an eye to their \"commercial potential\", rather than originating from the artist's personal circle of acquaintances. The Paris show of 1917 was Modigliani's only solo exhibition during his life, and is \"notorious\" in modern art history for its sensational public reception and the attendant issues of obscenity. The show was closed by police on its opening day, but continued thereafter, most likely after the removal of paintings from the gallery's streetfront window. According to the catalogue description from the 2010 sale at Sotheby's, seven nudes were exhibited in the 1917 show, four of them titled Nu; \"the present work may have been among these pictures.... the models' permissiveness and the artist's accessibility to them implied that these oils were post coital-renderings, the women still flush and basking in the afterglow\". In 1999 Nude Sitting on a Divan sold at Sotheby's for $16.7 million, a record price for a painting by the artist. The most recent sale far surpassed the pre-sale estimate of $40 million, as well as the previous record for one of Modigliani's works, $52.6 million for a sculpture."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_a_Man_(Raphael)","descr":"The Portrait of a Man is an early work by the Italian Renaissance painter Raphael. It has previously been attributed to Hans Holbein and Perugino."},{"label":"DBpedia:Sant'Onofrio_Altarpiece","descr":"The Sant'Onofrio Altarpiece is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Luca Signorelli, housed in the Museo dell'Opera del Duomo in the Cathedral of Perugia, Italy. It was painted for the church in 1484, commissioned by bishop Jacopo Vagnucci, a native of Cortona, Signorelli's birthplace."},{"label":"DBpedia:Last_Supper_(Perugino)","descr":"The Last Supper (1493-1496) is a fresco by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino. It depicts Jesus and the Apostles during the Last Supper, with Judas sitting separately on the near side of the table, as is common in depictions of the Last Supper in Christian art. It is considered on of Perugino's best works. As in some other cases, Perugino reused the details of the delicate figures here in other works, drawing later complaints from Giorgio Vasari. The convent of Fuligno originally had housed a number of Franciscan nuns since 1419. Later it became a convent for noble Florentine girls, and received the patronage of Lorenzo de' Medici and the Lapaccini family. Pietro Perugino, who by 1493 had settled mainly in Florence started to paint there. The fresco was \"discovered\" and open to the public in the 19th century. It was originally attributed to Raphael, who was a pupil of Perugino later, and whose early style is very similar to his, but it was eventually realized that it was a work by Perugino."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Church_at_Auvers","descr":"The Church at Auvers was painted by Dutch post-impressionist artist Vincent van Gogh in 1890. The church is in Place de l'Eglise, Auvers-sur-Oise, France."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Nostalgia_of_the_Infinite","descr":"The Nostalgia of the Infinite is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. The subject of the painting is a large tower. The scene is struck by low, angular evening light. In the foreground below the tower are two small shadowy figures resembling those in future works by Salvador Dal\u00ed. This painting is the most famous example of the tower theme which appears in several of de Chirico\u2019s works. Although the painting is dated 1911, this date is generally held in question. It has been speculated by the Museum of Modern Art in New York that it was created from 1912 to 1913 while the Annenberg School for Communication suggests 1913-14. According to art historian, Robert Hughes, the painting draws inspiration from one of the spectacular architectural landmarks of Turin, the Mole Antonelliana. This painting, amongst other works by Giorgio de Chirico, influenced the painting by Fumito Ueda for the front cover of the video game Ico used in the Japanese and European versions of the game."},{"label":"DBpedia:Hadleigh_Castle_(painting)","descr":"Hadleigh Castle is an oil painting by the English painter John Constable. John Constable visited Hadleigh Castle in 1814 and made a minute drawing of the castle as preparation for ten oil sketches and a single painting. The oil painting was produced in 1829 and exhibited at the Royal Academy in the same year. One of the sketches is currently displayed at the Tate Gallery, London, while the painting now hangs in the Yale Center for British Art at New Haven, United States. Constable's painting, \"one of his most monumental works\" according to art historians Tammis Groft and Mary Mackay, shows Hadleigh Castle as a decaying man-made structure, succumbing to the elemental power of nature."},{"label":"DBpedia:Consequences_of_War","descr":"Consequences of War, also known as Horrors of War, was executed from 1638-1639 by Peter Paul Rubens in oil paint on canvas. The artist painted it for Ferdinando II de' Medici. Although commissioned by an Italian, art historians characterize both the work and the artist as Flemish Baroque. The painting is a commentary on a European continent ravaged by the Thirty Years' War, and the artist employed numerous symbols, both contemporary and ancient, to deplore the state of the continent."},{"label":"DBpedia:Shearing_the_Rams","descr":"Shearing the Rams is an 1890 painting by the Australian artist Tom Roberts. The painting depicts sheep shearers plying their trade in a timber shearing shed. Distinctly Australian in character, the painting is a celebration of pastoral life and work, especially \"strong, masculine labour\" and recognises the role that wool-growing played in the development of the country. One of the most well known and loved paintings in Australia, Shearing the Rams has been described as a \"masterpiece of Australian impressionism\" and \"the great icon of Australian popular art history\". The painting is part of the National Gallery of Victoria Australian art collection."},{"label":"DBpedia:Studio_Wall","descr":"Studio Wall (1872) is an oil painting by the German artist Adolph Menzel, now in the collection of the Hamburger Kunsthalle. It is considered one of the \"masterpieces of Menzel's maturity\", and the artist deemed it his best painting. The painting depicts a red colored wall of the artist's studio at night, upon which are hung a series of plaster casts illuminated from below. The casts include portrait busts, death masks and life masks of friends of the artist, children, classical personae such as Dante, Schiller, and possibly Goethe or Wagner, a dog, and male and female torsos; art historian Werner Hoffmann saw this assemblage as a conscious blurring of \"the dividing line between fame and anonymity. \" Numerous commentators have noted that the array of dramatically lit casts \"convey an uncanny impression of quasi-animateness. \" Studio Wall was preceded by a work of the same title painted in 1852, an oil on paper now in the Alte Nationalgalerie in Berlin. That painting features casts of two arms and a separate hand, the arms arranged so as to suggest a relationship to a body from which they have been removed. Studio Wall is also seen as related to Menzel's larger painting Iron Rolling Mill (1872\u20131875), for which it may have served as a study in dramatic lighting, yet it has greater import than that of a merely preparatory exercise, and may have functioned as a kind of memorial: the central death mask is that of the artist's friend Friedrich Eggers, the first critic sympathetic to Menzel's work. Eggers died in August 1872, and the painting is dated from October of that year. A contemplation on the transience of life, Studio Wall is also a bravura piece of alla prima painting. Interpretations of the work vary greatly. For art historian Julius Meier-Graefe, Studio Wall was a harmonious example of pictorial unity; to the contrary, Hoffmann saw the painting as a \"coded manifesto\", a rejection by Menzel of academic canons in favor of an aesthetic that celebrated the fragmentary and disjointed, and symbolic of the triumph of painting over sculpture. Fried rejects Hoffman's view of fragmentariness and anti-academicism, seeing the picture as a structured composition of objects arranged in successive rows. For Fried the likeliest allegorical meaning would be the sublimation of tangible existence to that of \"phantasmagorias\", a world inhabited by ghosts in the form of plaster casts."},{"label":"DBpedia:Martyrdom_of_the_Ten_Thousand","descr":"The Martyrdom of the Ten Thousand is an oil painting by Albrecht D\u00fcrer, dating to 1508 and now at the Kunsthistorisches Museum of Vienna, Austria. It is signed on a cartouche which hangs from the artist's self-portrait in the center, saying Iste fatiebat Ano Domini 1508 Albertus D\u00fcrer Aleman."},{"label":"DBpedia:Lamentation_of_Christ_(D%C3%BCrer,_Munich)","descr":"Lamentation of Christ (also known as Glimm Lamentation) is an oil-on-panel painting by German Renaissance artist Albrecht D\u00fcrer, executed around 1500 and currently housed in the Alte Pinakothek of Munich, Germany. The work was commissioned by goldsmith Jakob Glimm as a memorial of his first wife, Margaret Holzmann, who a died in 1500. The removal of later re-painting in 1924 showed the original figures of the donors (Glimm and his three sons) and of the dead woman, depicted in far smaller proportions than the religious characters."},{"label":"DBpedia:Madonna_del_Prato_(Bellini)","descr":"The Madonna del Prato (Madonna of the Meadow) is a 1505 painting of the Virgin Mary and the Christ Child by Giovanni Bellini, now in the National Gallery in London. Originally painted as oil and egg tempera on wood, it was transferred to canvas in 1949, with damage in places. It presents a medieval iconography of the Virgin of humility seated before a full and shining rural panorama, with both the devotional aspect and the landscape aspect given equal prominence. Full of small details of everyday life, this landscape contributes to the intimate and familiar tone of the two figures. The vulture in the tree also possibly symbolises death. The figures' poses invite meditation on Jesus's death and passion, recalling Piet\u00e0 compositions with the dead adult Jesus in his mother's lap."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Pietro_Bembo_(Raphael)","descr":"Portrait of Pietro Bembo, also called Portrait of the Young Pietro Bembo, is an oil painting by Italian artist Raphael. Completed ca. 1506, the painting hangs in the Museum of Fine Arts in Budapest. The image is ostensibly a portrait of Venetian Cardinal Pietro Bembo, Raphael's long-time friend. Raphael did make a black chalk drawing of Bembo during Bembo's visit to Urbino in 1506. The picture hung in Bembo's home for years before it disappeared. The lack of resemblance of this picture to its namesake, particularly in the nose, has led to other subjects being proposed, including Agnolo Doni, whom Raphael painted around the same time. In a 2004 biography of Bembo, Carol Kidwell states that the subject \"appears a happy courtier, not a man set on making his mark in the world, and he wears a red beret while Venetian noblemen wore black.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Lamentation_of_Christ_(D%C3%BCrer,_Nuremberg)","descr":"Lamentation of Christ is an oil-on-panel painting attributed to German Renaissance artist Albrecht D\u00fcrer, executed around 1498 and currently housed in the Germanisches Nationalmuseum of Nuremberg, Germany. The work was executed for the family chapel of Karl Holzschuher in the church of Sankt Johannis in Nuremberg. D\u00fcrer's monogram can be seen in the corner of Jesus' white shroud, but it is commonly considered to be apocriphal."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_P%C3%A8re_Tanguy","descr":"Portrait of P\u00e8re Tanguy, painted by Vincent van Gogh in 1887, is one of his three paintings of Julien Tanguy. The three works demonstrate a progression in Van Gogh's artistic style after his arrival in Paris. The first is somber, and formed from a simple composition. The second introduces Van Gogh's Japanese prints. The last and most advanced in style, skill and color integrates Japanese, Impressionist, and other influences on the Parisian artist community. This painting conveys a sense of serenity that Van Gogh seeks for himself. This last painting of Tanguy is in the Mus\u00e9e Rodin, Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:Equestrian_Portrait_of_the_Count-Duke_of_Olivares","descr":"The Equestrian Portrait of Count-Duke of Olivares is a painting by Spanish artist Diego Vel\u00e1zquez, finished in 1634. It is housed in the Museo del Prado, Madrid. The subject of the picture is Gaspar de Guzm\u00e1n, Count-Duke of Olivares, Prime Minister of Spain during the reign of Philip IV. He is portrayed riding a horse, an honour generally reserved for monarchs at the time. He wears a plumed headgear and a gilt cuirass, and holds a command baton. The composition refers to Olivares' military leadership in the service of King Philip."},{"label":"DBpedia:Helen_of_Troy_(painting)","descr":"Helen of Troy is an 1898 painting by Evelyn de Morgan depicting Helen of Troy; it was commissioned by William Imrie of Liverpool. Compositionally, the painting is similar to De Morgan's Flora and Cassandra: Helena is standing upright and tall, in a peaceful posture that reminds to Boticcelli's representations of Greek and Roman goddesses that are, at the same time, an evocation of classical art, a usual characteristic between Renaissance artists. Helena has been removed from the common artistic elements of the Trojan War: despite dealing with a typically bellic topic, De Morgan decides to paint, instead of weapons and battles, the wonderful pink clothes and the fascinated look that Helena puts on the mirror that is reflecting her beautiful face, elements that can be read as symbols of her inconscient vanity, which eventually brought a long and terrible war and destruction to the city of Troy, which we can see in the last term of the composition, on top of a hill. The presence of the moon-sun in the sky is also related to her feminine and voluble nature."},{"label":"DBpedia:Morphological_Echo","descr":"Morphological Echo is a title shared by two oil on panel paintings created by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dal\u00ed. The first of these works was painted between 1934 and 1936 and measures 64 x 54 cm. It depicts a seemingly minimal architectural setting with several surrealist images in its finer details. In the distance is a wall housing a bell resembling the figure of a woman in bundled skirts. In the distance towards the center is a strangely eroded rock form. The most significant element of this image is a small figure in the lower right of a woman running with a large hoop. In the shadow cast by the figure, her arms appear to merge into a circle around her head. The shadow cast by the figures head takes on the appearance of the hub of a wheel. This painting is displayed at the Salvador Dal\u00ed Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida on loan from the E. and A. Reynolds Morse collection. The second work by this title was painted in 1936 and measures 12 x 13\u201d. It depicts a table with three objects set upon it. In the distance beyond the table are six more objects in two horizontal rows of three. These objects roughly resemble the three shapes they are aligned with on the table. This painting is owned by the Salvador Dal\u00ed Museum."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Human_Condition_(painting)","descr":"The Human Condition (La condition humaine) generally refers to two similar oil on canvas paintings by the Belgian surrealist Ren\u00e9 Magritte. One was completed in 1933 and is in the collection of the National Gallery of Art in Washington DC. The other was completed in 1935 and is part of the Simon Spierer Collection in Geneva, Switzerland. A number of drawings of the same name exist as well, including one at the Cleveland Museum of Art."},{"label":"DBpedia:Melencolia_I","descr":"Melencolia I is a 1514 engraving by the German Renaissance master Albrecht D\u00fcrer. It is an allegorical composition which has been the subject of many interpretations. One of the most famous old master prints, it has sometimes been regarded as forming one of a conscious group of Meisterstiche (\"master prints\") with his Knight, Death and the Devil (1513) and Saint Jerome in his Study (1514). The engraving has dimensions of 24 x 18.8\u00a0cm."},{"label":"DBpedia:Charles_I_Insulted_by_Cromwell's_Soldiers","descr":"Charles I Insulted by Cromwell's Soldiers is an oil painting by the French artist Hippolyte Delaroche, depicting Charles I of England taunted by the victorious soldiers of Oliver Cromwell after the Second English Civil War, prior to his execution in 1649. Completed in 1836, it is thought to be one of Delaroche's greatest masterpieces. It was displayed as part of the Bridgewater Collection in London, although it was latterly thought to have been lost when, during The Blitz of 1941, a German bomb struck close to Bridgewater House, causing shrapnel damage to the canvas in the ensuing explosion. In 2009 it was rediscovered in Scotland in an unexpectedly good condition, having been rolled up and stored after the war, but recorded in the intervening years as badly damaged or destroyed. After a partial restoration it went on display in the National Gallery in London, in an exhibition re-appraising Delaroche's work. After the exhibition, it is to be fully restored."},{"label":"DBpedia:Alicia_Markova_%22The_Dying_Swan%22","descr":"Alicia Markova \"The Dying Swan\" (also known as The Dying Swan, but not to be confused with another painting with the same title by the same artist started in 1949 and completed in 1951) is a painting by Vladimir Tretchikoff painted in 1949. In this portrait fantasy, Tretchikoff has identified the prima ballerina Alicia Markova in her most famous role - The Dying Swan - from which, as did Anna Pavlova, she has become inseparable in the minds of all lovers of the ballet; it is for this reason that the artist painted the swan and Markova as one and the same being."},{"label":"DBpedia:Dana%C3%AB_(Correggio)","descr":"Dana\u00eb is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Correggio, executed around 1531 and housed in the Galleria Borghese in Rome."},{"label":"DBpedia:Allegory_of_Prudence","descr":"The Allegory of Prudence (c. 1565-1570) is an oil painting by the Italian master Titian. It is in the National Gallery, London. The picture portrays three human heads, facing different directions, hanging over three animal heads, depicting (from left) a wolf, a lion and a dog. The three human heads represent an allegory of the \"Three Ages of Man\" (youth, maturity, old age), like in the famous enigma of the Sphynx and as later described by Aristotle. The humans are thought to be portraits of Titian, his son Orazio, and a young cousin, Marco Vecellio, who, like Orazio, lived and worked with Titian. Titian also painted a late self-portrait in 1567, from which the comparison is made. The other faces also occur in other Titian paintings of the period. It is the only painting by Titian to contain a motto: EX PRAETERITO\/PRAESENS PRUDENTER AGIT\/NE FUTURA ACTION\u1ebc DETURPET (\"From the past, the present acts prudently, lest it spoil future actions\"). The painting is connected by Erwin Panofsky, in a famous exposition, with Titian's success in 1569 in transferring his senseria, a valuable \"broker's patent\" granted him by the Signoria, to his son. Titian is therefore the past, Orazio the present, and in the absence of a grandson, Marco is the future."},{"label":"DBpedia:Interior_(Degas)","descr":"Interior, also known as The Rape, is an oil painting on canvas by Edgar Degas (1834\u20131917), painted in 1868\u20131869. Described as \"the most puzzling of Degas's major works\", it depicts a tense confrontation by lamplight between a man and a partially undressed woman. The theatrical character of the scene has led art historians to seek a literary source for the composition, but none of the sources proposed has met with universal acceptance. Even the painting's title is uncertain; acquaintances of the artist referred to it either as Le Viol or Int\u00e9rieur, and it was under the latter title that Degas exhibited it for the first time in 1905. The painting is housed in the Philadelphia Museum of Art."},{"label":"DBpedia:Ansidei_Madonna","descr":"The Ansidei Madonna is a 1505-1507 painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael, painted during his Florentine period. It shows the Blessed Virgin Mary sitting on a wooden throne, with the child Christ on her lap. On her right John the Baptist stands, on her left Saint Nicholas is reading. At the time the painting was commissioned, there were other paintings that made up the grouping for the altarpiece. Of the predellas, the only that remains is Saint John the Baptist Preaching, the others are inexplicably lost. Both the main painting, \"Ansidei Madonna\", and the predella \"Saint John the Baptist Preaching\", are located at the National Gallery in London."},{"label":"DBpedia:Along_the_River_During_the_Qingming_Festival","descr":"Along the River During the Qingming Festival is a panoramic painting by Song Dynasty artist Zhang Zeduan (1085\u20131145). It captures the daily life of people and the landscape of the capital, Bianjing, today's Kaifeng, from the Song period. The theme celebrates the festive spirit and worldly commotion at the Qingming Festival, rather than the holiday's ceremonial aspects, such as tomb sweeping and prayers. The entire piece was painted in hand scroll format and the content reveals the lifestyle of all levels of the society from rich to poor as well as different economic activities in rural areas and the city. It offers glimpses of period clothing and architecture. As an artistic creation, the piece has been revered and court artists of subsequent dynasties have made several re-interpretive replicas. It is considered to be the most renowned work among all Chinese paintings, and it has been called \"China's Mona Lisa. \" Over the centuries, the Qingming scroll was collected and kept among numerous private owners, before it eventually returned to public ownership. The painting was a particular favorite of emperor Puyi, who took the Song Dynasty original (25.5 by 525\u00a0cm) with him to Manchukuo. It was later re-purchased in 1945 and kept at the Palace Museum in the Forbidden City. About 20 to 30 variations on this topic by artists of subsequent dynasties were made. Several Ming and Qing versions can be found in public and private collections around the world. Each version follows the overall composition of the original fairly faithfully, however, the details often vary widely. The Song Dynasty original and the Qing version, in the Beijing and Taipei Palace Museums respectively, are regarded as national treasures and are exhibited only for brief periods every few years. For instance, the wait in Beijing to see the painting was three and a half hours."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Siege_of_Asola","descr":"The Siege of Asola is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance master Tintoretto, executed in 1544-1545. It is housed in the National Museum of Pozna\u0144, Poland. The canvas portrays two scenes. From the left to the middle is, in the foreground, a clash of knights occurred during the siege of the Venetian town of Asola by the troops of the Austrian emperor Maximilian I in 1516. Among the clashing soldiers is the banner of Asola, the fortress itself being shown in the background. On the right is depicted to homage of the citizens of Asola to the Venetian provveditore (curator) Francesco Contarini, the nobleman who organized the city's defence and forced Maximilian's troop to withdraw."},{"label":"DBpedia:A_Woman_Peeling_Apples","descr":"A Woman Peeling Apples (c. 1663) is a painting by the Dutch Golden Age painter Pieter de Hooch in the Wallace Collection in London. It is a genre painting showing a quiet domestic scene from the time, like most of de Hooch's works. The elaborate fireplace and fur and embroidery in the mother's clothes show a prosperous household, and the cupid between the two figures implies a happy one. Its sensitive handling of light\u2014in particular, natural light filtered into an otherwise unlit interior space\u2014led 19th century art historians to attribute it to Johannes Vermeer, with whose work the painting does bear strong similarities. However, Vermeer's work typically portrayed a woman working alone instead of a family scene as in A Woman Peeling Apples. Most scholars also now believe that de Hooch was influenced by Vermeer instead of Vermeer by de Hooch. The painting is in oil on canvas (67 cm \u00d7 55 cm). It is also sometimes referred to as A Woman Peeling Apples, with a Small Child."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Bookworm","descr":"The Bookworm is an 1850 oil-on-canvas painting by the German painter and poet Carl Spitzweg. The picture is typical of Spitzweg's humorous, anecdotal style and it is characteristic of Biedermeier art in general. The painting is representative of the introspective and conservative mood in Europe during the period between the end of the Napoleonic Wars and the revolutions of 1848, but at the same time pokes fun at those attitudes by embodying them in the fusty old scholar unconcerned with the affairs of the mundane world."},{"label":"DBpedia:Skull_of_a_Skeleton_with_Burning_Cigarette","descr":"Skull of a Skeleton with Burning Cigarette (Dutch: Kop van een skelet met brandende sigaret) is a 1886 painting by Vincent van Gogh. The painting is in the permanent collection of the Van Gogh Museum. In 1887\/1888, Vincent van Gogh painted two more paintings with skulls. 153px 148px Skull (1887\/1888) Skull (1887\/1888)"},{"label":"DBpedia:Sacrifice_of_Isaac_(Caravaggio)","descr":"The Sacrifice of Isaac is the title of two paintings by the Italian master Caravaggio (1571\u20131610) depicting the sacrifice of Isaac."},{"label":"DBpedia:Beethoven_Frieze","descr":"The Beethoven Frieze is a painting by Gustav Klimt on display in the Secession Building located in Vienna, Austria."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Rescue_(painting)","descr":"The Rescue (1855) is a painting by John Everett Millais depicting a fireman rescuing three children from a house fire, with their mother receiving them back into her arms. Millais witnessed the death of a fireman in the course of a rescue, and decided to depict the subject. The fire brigade had only recently been transformed from private businesses dedicated to the protection of property to a public institution charged to protect life first. Millais sought to create the correct effects of light and smoke by using a sheet of coloured glass and by burning planks of wood. This emphasis on fleeting effects of colour and light was a new departure in his art. The painting is also notable for its startling transitions of colour, particularly the dramatic effect by which the sleeve of the mother's nightgown changes from slatey blue to pale pink. This led to much critical comment at the time. Robyn Cooper argues that some criticism of the painting arose from the fact that it depicted a virile working class man rescuing middle class children, while their father is nowhere to be seen. The mother's opened arms seem to greet this strong new man as much as her children."},{"label":"DBpedia:Morning_at_Grand_Manan","descr":"Morning at Grand Manan is an oil painting by Alfred Thompson Bricher. It is part of the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art, and is currently on view in the Paine Early American Painting Gallery."},{"label":"DBpedia:Legend_of_Saint_Ursula","descr":"The Legend of Saint Ursula is a series of large wall-paintings on canvas by the Italian Renaissance artist Vittore Carpaccio, originally created for the Scuola di Sant'Orsola (Ursula) in Venice. They are now in the Gallerie dell'Accademia in Venice."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Myth_of_Prometheus_(Piero_di_Cosimo)","descr":"The Myth of Prometheus is a series of five panels painted by Piero di Cosimo. It shows Prometheus standing before a life-size statue."},{"label":"DBpedia:Murdering_Airplane","descr":"Murdering Airplane (1920) is a collage by the German dadaist\/surrealist Max Ernst. It depicts a monstrous aircraft with human arms flying over an open field. In the lower right-hand corner two soldiers are carrying a third wounded soldier. The Dada movement was created partly as a critical response to World War I. This had a special significance to Ernst who served in the war. This work was a statement on the advent of aerial warfare that occurred in that war."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Sisters_(Abbott_Thayer)","descr":"The Sisters is an 1884 oil on canvas painting by Abbott Handerson Thayer. It depicts Bessie and Clara Stillman, and was commissioned from Thayer by their brother, the banker James Stillman. It has been cited as one of Thayer's best works, a composition of grandeur."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Deposition_(Rubens)","descr":"The Deposition is a 1602 painting of the Deposition of Christ by Pieter Paul Rubens, previously attributed to Van Dyck. It is now in the Galleria Borghese."},{"label":"DBpedia:Odalisque_with_Raised_Arms","descr":"Odalisque with Raised Arms is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1923. The full title is Odalisque assise aux bras lev\u00e9s, fauteuil ray\u00e9 vert, which translates as \"Odalisque with raised arms sitting on a green striped armchair\". It is located in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C, which acquired it in 1963 from the art collector Chester Dale."},{"label":"DBpedia:Beata_Beatrix","descr":"Beata Beatrix is an oil on canvas painting by Pre-Raphaelite artist Dante Gabriel Rossetti, completed in 1870. It depicts Beatrice Portinari from Dante Alighieri's poem La Vita Nuova at the moment of her death. The painting's title in English translates to 'Blessed Beatrice'. La Vita Nuova had been a story that Rossetti had found of interest from childhood and he had begun work translating it into English in 1845 and published it in his work, The Early Italian Poets. Rossetti modeled Beatrice after his deceased wife and frequent model, Elizabeth Siddal, who died in 1862. The painting was created from the numerous drawings that Rossetti had made of Siddal during their time together. The symbolism in the painting of a red dove, a messenger of love, relates back to Rossetti's love for Siddal with the white poppy representing laudanum and the means of her death. Several of Siddal's friends found the painting to bear little resemblance to the drawings of her\u2014the facial features were harder and the neck is out of proportion. Beata Beatrix is one of Rossetti's most recognized works and has made Siddal's name to be one that is frequently linked with Dante Alighieri's Beatrice. In an 1873 letter to his friend William Morris, Rossetti said he intended the painting \"not as a representation of the incident of the death of Beatrice, but as an ideal of the subject, symbolized by a trance or sudden spiritual transfiguration. \" This painting is on display in the Tate Britain. It was a gift in memory of Francis, Baron Mount-Temple by his wife, Georgiana in 1889."},{"label":"DBpedia:Madonna_della_Misericordia_(Piero_della_Francesca)","descr":"The Polyptych of the Misericordia, conserved in the Pinacoteca Comunale of Sansepolcro, Tuscany, Italy, is one of the earliest works of the Italian Renaissance painter Piero della Francesca. The central panel is of the common motif of the Virgin of Mercy or Madonna della Misericordia. In 1445, the Compagnia della Misericordia, a confraternity of Borgo San Sepolcro, commissioned Piero, a native of the town, to paint a polyptych for them. According to the taste of the time, the polyptych was to be painted with precious colours and have a gilded background. Piero did not respect the three-year time limit set in the contract\u2014he was busy working on many other projects. The polyptych was only finished seventeen years later, in 1462. The oldest two panels, to the left of the main panel, depict St. Sebastian and St. John the Baptist. St. Sebastian's panel shows a close connection with Masaccio's nudes Piero would have seen in an early visit to Florence. Piero painted the outlying panels of the tympanum later; including the Crucifixion at the top centre, St. Benedict, the Angel, the Madonna of the Annunciation, and St. Francis in the sides. Towards 1450 he finished the figures of St. Andrew and St. Bernardino. The predellas, with five scenes of Jesus's life, were mostly executed by assistants. The last part of the polyptych to be painted was the main central panel showing the Madonna della Misericordia. The panel portrays the mercifully protective gesture of the Madonna enfolding her followers in her mantle. Piero resolves the difficulty of dealing with a flat solid gilded background, requested by the patrons, by placing the kneeling members of the confraternity (who commissioned the altarpiece) in the realistic three-dimensional space created by the Madonna's mantle, a space resembling the apse of a church. Notably, the Madonna is still portrayed larger in size than the human figures, a tradition in medieval painting. However, the fully three-dimensional rendering of the figure, inspired by Masaccio, and the perspective study, inspired by Brunelleschi, are plainly of the Renaissance."},{"label":"DBpedia:Saint_Catherine_of_Alexandria_(Raphael)","descr":"Saint Catherine of Alexandria is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. In the painting, Catherine of Alexandria is looking upward in ecstasy and leaning on a wheel - an allusion to the breaking wheel (or Catherine wheel) of her martyrdom. It was painted circa 1507, shortly after Raphael's arrival in Florence and shows the young artist in a transitional phase. The depiction of religious passion in the painting is still reminiscent of Pietro Perugino. But the graceful contrapposto of Catherine's pose is typical of the influence of Leonardo da Vinci on Raphael, and is believed to be an echo of Leonardo's lost painting Leda and the Swan. This picture was partially used on the cover of The Smashing Pumpkins album Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness."},{"label":"DBpedia:Girl_with_a_Pearl_Earring","descr":"The painting Girl with a Pearl Earring (Dutch: Het Meisje met de Parel) is one of Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer's masterworks and, as the name implies, uses a pearl earring for a focal point. Today the painting is kept in the Mauritshuis gallery in The Hague. It is sometimes referred to as \"the Mona Lisa of the North\" or \"the Dutch Mona Lisa\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:Venus_of_Urbino","descr":"The Venus of Urbino is a 1538 oil painting by the Italian master Titian. It depicts a nude young woman, identified with the goddess Venus, reclining on a couch or bed in the sumptuous surroundings of a Renaissance palace. It hangs in the Galleria degli Uffizi in Florence. The figure's pose is based on Giorgione's Sleeping Venus (c. 1510), which Titian completed. In this depiction, Titian has domesticated Venus by moving her to an indoor setting, engaging her with the viewer, and making her sensuality explicit. Devoid as it is of any classical or allegorical trappings \u2013 Venus displays none of the attributes of the goddess she is supposed to represent \u2013 the painting is unapologetically erotic."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Stages_of_Life","descr":"The Stages of Life is an allegorical oil painting of 1835 by the German Romantic landscape painter Caspar David Friedrich. Completed just five years before his death, this picture, like many of his works, forms a meditation both on his own mortality and on the transience of life. The painting is set on a sea shore and shows in the foreground an aged man with his back turned to the viewer, walking towards two adults and two children on a hilltop overlooking a harbour. The figures are echoed by five ships shown in the harbour, each at a different distance from the shore, an allegorical reference to the different stages of human life, to the end of a journey, to the closeness of death. The figures have been identified as Friedrich and his family. The aged man is the artist himself, the small boy is his young son Gustav Adolf, the young girl is his daughter Agnes Adelheid, the older girl is his daughter Emma, and the man in the top hat is his nephew Johann Heinrich. Although many of Friedrich's paintings were set in imagined landscapes, The Stages of Life is recognisably located at Utkiek, near Friedrich's birthplace of Greifswald in today's northeastern Germany."},{"label":"DBpedia:Piet%C3%A0_or_Revolution_by_Night","descr":"Piet\u00e0 or Revolution by Night (Piet\u00e0 ou La r\u00e9volution la nuit) (1923) is a painting by German surrealist and Dadaist Max Ernst. The painting is interpreted as symbolic of the turbulent relationship between the artist and his father, as an amateur painter and staunch Catholic. In the painting, Ernst replaces the classic image of the Virgin Mary holding the crucified body of Jesus (piet\u00e0) with his father as Mary and the artist himself as Jesus. The expressions on both faces are blank as though in a state of sleepwalking. In the background drawn on a wall is a man with a bandaged head ascending a flight of stairs. A profile on the work in the British newspaper The Guardian indicates the figure could represent either Sigmund Freud or the French poet Guillaume Apollinaire, who suffered a head wound during World War I. Piet\u00e0 or Revolution by Night is an example of the early period of the surrealist movement. Its title reflects the revolutionary sentiments of the movement, and in particular of its founder, Andr\u00e9 Breton. This image is notable for its combination of heavily textured surfaces and sharp, hand-drawn outlines. Since 1981 it has been part of the collection of the Tate Gallery in London."},{"label":"DBpedia:Neo-impressionism","descr":"Neo-impressionism is a term coined by French art critic F\u00e9lix F\u00e9n\u00e9on in 1886 to describe an art movement founded by Georges Seurat. Seurat\u2019s greatest masterpiece, A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte, marked the beginning of this movement when it first made its appearance at an exhibition of the Soci\u00e9t\u00e9 des Artistes Ind\u00e9pendants in Paris. Around this time, the peak of France\u2019s modern era emerged and many painters were in search of new methods. Followers of neo-impressionism, in particular, were drawn to modern urban scenes as well as landscapes and seashores. Science-based interpretation of lines and colors influenced neo-impressionists\u2019 characterization of their own contemporary art. Pointillism technique is often mentioned, because it was the dominant technique in the beginning. Portrait of F\u00e9lix F\u00e9n\u00e9on (in front of an enamel of a rhythmic background of measures and angles, shades and colors) 300px Artist Paul Signac Year 1890 Type Oil on canvas Dimensions 73.5\u00a0cm \u00d7\u00a092.5\u00a0cm (28.9\u00a0in \u00d7\u00a036.4\u00a0in) Location Museum of Modern Art, New York"},{"label":"DBpedia:La_Bella","descr":"La Bella is a portrait of an unknown woman by Titian, painted around 1536 and now in the Palazzo Pitti in Florence. The work of a mature artist, it shows the woman with Renaissance ideal proportions and a natural expressive force The composition is clear. During 2011 La Bella toured the United States, featured at the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, Texas, the Nevada Museum of Art in Reno, and the Portland Art Museum."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Lackawanna_Valley","descr":"The Lackawanna Valley is a c. 1855 painting by the American artist George Inness. Painted in oil on canvas, it is one of Inness's best and most well-known works. It is in the collection of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. The painting was commissioned from Inness by John Jay Phelps the first president of the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad, and depicts the Lackawanna Valley in Pennsylvania at the site of the railroad's first roundhouse in Scranton."},{"label":"DBpedia:Montmartre_(Van_Gogh_series)","descr":"The Montmartre paintings are a group of works that Vincent van Gogh made in 1886 and 1887 of the Paris district of Montmartre while living there with his brother Theo. Rather than capture urban settings in Paris, Van Gogh preferred pastoral scenes, such as Montmartre and Asni\u00e8res in the northwest suburbs. Of the two years in Paris, the work from 1886 often has the dark, somber tones of his early works from Holland and Brussels. By the spring of 1887 Van Gogh embraced use of color and light and created his own brushstroke techniques based upon Impressionism and Pointillism. The works in the series provide examples of his work during that period of time and the progression he made as an artist."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Scream","descr":"The Scream is the popular name given to each of four versions of a composition, created as both paintings and pastels, by the Expressionist artist Edvard Munch between 1893 and 1910. Der Schrei der Natur (The Scream of Nature) is the title Munch gave to these works, all of which show a figure with an agonized expression against a landscape with a tumultuous orange sky. Arthur Lubow has described The Scream as \"an icon of modern art, a Mona Lisa for our time. \" Edvard Munch created the four versions in various media. The National Gallery, Oslo, holds one of two painted versions (1893, shown at right). The Munch Museum holds the other painted version and a pastel version from 1893. These three versions have not traveled for years. The fourth version (pastel, 1895) was sold for $119,922,600 at Sotheby's Impressionist and Modern art auction on 2 May 2012 to financier Leon Black, the highest nominal price paid for a painting at auction. The painting is on display in the Museum of Modern Art in New York for six months from October 2012 to March 2013. Also in 1895, Munch created a lithograph stone of the image. Of the lithograph prints produced by Munch, several examples survive. Only approximately four dozen prints were made before the original stone was resurfaced by the printer in Munch's absence. The Scream has been the target of several high-profile art thefts. In 1994, the version in the National Gallery was stolen. It was recovered several months later. In 2004, both The Scream and Madonna were stolen from the Munch Museum, and recovered two years later."},{"label":"DBpedia:Girl_with_a_Red_Hat","descr":"Girl with a Red Hat is a small painting by the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer, executed 1665-1666, in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.. It is one of a number of Vermeer's tronies -- depictions of models fancifully dressed that were not (as far as is known) intended to be portraits of specific, identifiable subjects."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Birth_of_Venus_(Bouguereau)","descr":"The Birth of Venus (La Naissance de V\u00e9nus) is one of the most famous paintings by 19th-century painter William-Adolphe Bouguereau. It depicts not the actual birth of Venus from the sea, but her transportation in a shell, as a fully mature woman, from the sea to Paphos in Cyprus. For Bouguereau, it is considered a tour de force. The canvas stands at just over 9\u00a0ft\u00a010\u00a0in high, and 7\u00a0ft\u00a02\u00a0in wide. The subject matter, as well as the composition, resembles the rather more famous rendition of this subject, Sandro Botticelli's The Birth of Venus, as well as Raphael's The Triumph of Galatea."},{"label":"DBpedia:Madonna_del_cardellino","descr":"The Madonna del cardellino or Madonna of the Goldfinch is a painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael, from c. 1505-1506. A 10-year restoration process was completed in 2008, after which the painting was returned to its home at the Uffizi in Florence. During the restoration, an antique copy replaced the painting in the gallery. Raphael is considered to be a \u201cmaster\u201d the High Renaissance, a title he shares with Michaelangelo and Leonardo Da Vinci. He was born in 1483 and died in 1520, living a mere thirty-seven years. Despite his relatively short lifespan, he was highly influential throughout his time on earth. He produced a vast quantity of work in a variety of media. He was active in architecture, printmaking, painting, and drawing. During the first half of his career, he spent years traveling across Northern Italy and was influenced by the Florentine styles he saw there, causing this stage to be called his Florentine Period. After which, in 1508, he moved to Rome where he continued to work. Many of his commissions came from the Vatican, including the Apostolic Palace, which brought about one of his most famous works, School of Athens. Due to his relationship with the church, he and Michelangelo were fierce rivals throughout both of their careers, and often competed for the same commissions. During his Florentine period, this work, The Madonna Del Cardellino, was painted during this period, along with several other well-known Madonnas: The Madonna of the Meadow and La Belle Jardiniere. All three share several characteristics: Madonna is clothed in red and blue, the same three subjects are painted, the pyramidal composition, the natural background, and the connection to the church through the representation of books, crosses, or, indeed, the goldfinch. In this painting, as in most of the Madonnas of his Florentine period, Raphael arranged the three figures - Mary, Christ and the young John the Baptist - to fit into a geometrical design. Though the positions of the three bodies are natural, together they form an almost regular triangle. The Madonna is shown young and beautiful, as with Raphael\u2019s various other Madonnas. She is also clothed in red and blue, also typical, for red signifies the passion of Christ and blue was used to signify the church. Christ and John are still very young, only babies. John holds a goldfinch in his hand, and Christ is reaching out to touch it. The background is one typical of Raphael. The natural setting is diverse and yet all calmly frames the central subject taking place. The Madonna was a wedding gift from Raphael to his friend Lorenzo Nasi. On November 17, 1548 Nasi's house was destroyed by an earthquake and the painting broke into seventeen pieces. It was immediately taken to be salvaged, and was hastily put back together, though the seams were quite visible. In 2002, George Bonsanti of the Precious Stones organization gave to task of restoration to Patrizia Riitano. During the six year process that followed, her team worked to remove the years of grime that had degraded the paintings color, and to fix the damage done by the earthquake long ago. Before beginning the project, they studied the work as closely as possible, utilizing resources such as X-rays, CAT scans, reflective infra-red photography, and even lasers. Riitano closely studied the past quick fix layers that had been applied and removed them until the original by Raphael finally shone through. The restoration was completed in 2008, and the painting was put on display in Uffizi. In Madonna Del Cardellino, the goldfinch represents Christ\u2019s crucifixion. The reason for its association comes from the legend that its red spot was born at the time of the crucifixtion. It flew down over the head of Christ and was taking a thorn from His crown, when it was splashed with the drop of His blood. The book in Mary\u2019s hand reads Sedes Sapientiae or \u201cThe Throne of Wisdom. \u201d This term usually is applied to images in which Mary is seated upon a throne, with Jesus on her lap, but in this case, the inscription implies the rock which Mary sits on as her natural throne. In some versions of Vasari another similar painting is described as the Vallombrosa version but it has never been identified."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Leo_X_(Raphael)","descr":"The Portrait of Pope Leo X with two Cardinals is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance master Raphael, circa 1518-1519. It is housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence. In contrast to works depicting classical, idealised Madonnas and figures from antiquity, this portrait shows the sitter in a realistic manner. The Pope is depicted with the weight of late middle age, while his sight appears to be strained. The painting sets up a series of visual contractions between appearance and reality, intended by Raphael to reflect the unrest of a period of turmoil for the papacy. Martin Luther had recently challenged papal authority, listing among other grievances, Leo X's method of selling indulgences to fund work on St Peter's. The pommel on top of the Pope's chair evokes the symbolic abacus balls of the Medici Family, while the illuminated manuscript Bible open on the table has in the past been identified as the Hamilton Bible. The cardinals are usually identified as Giulio di Giuliano de' Medici and Luigi de' Rossi."},{"label":"DBpedia:San_Pietro_Martire_Triptych","descr":"The St. Peter of Verona Triptych is a painting by the Italian early Renaissance master Fra Angelico, executed around 1428-1429. It is housed in the National Museum of San Marco, Florence, central Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:A_Young_Girl_Reading","descr":"A Young Girl Reading, or The Reader, is an 18th century oil painting by Jean-Honor\u00e9 Fragonard. The painting was given to the National Gallery of Art by the daughter of Andrew W. Mellon following her father's death. The painting features an unidentified girl wearing a yellow saffron dress, though x-rays have revealed that the canvas originally featured a different image which Fragonard painted over. It is one in a series of paintings by Fragonard featuring young girls."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_the_Artist_Holding_a_Thistle","descr":"Portrait of the Artist Holding a Thistle is an oil painting on parchment pasted on canvas by German artist Albrecht D\u00fcrer, painted in 1493. It is the earliest of D\u00fcrer's painted self-portraits and has been identified as one of the first self-portraits painted by a Northern artist. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:Lying_Cow","descr":"Lying Cow is the name of two oil paintings created by Vincent van Gogh around 1882 when he was living at The Hague. In the 1970 catalogue raisonn\u00e9, based on Jacob Baart de la Faille's researches, the paintings were dated 1882. Jan Hulsker, however, feels they must be associated with his 1883 painting Cows in the Meadow, a painting known only by a very poor photograph, and accordingly dates them as August 1883, thus executed shortly before van Gogh broke with his mistress Sien Hoornik and left for Drenthe."},{"label":"DBpedia:An_Experiment_on_a_Bird_in_the_Air_Pump","descr":"An Experiment on a Bird in the Air Pump is a 1768 oil-on-canvas painting by Joseph Wright of Derby, one of a number of candlelit scenes that Wright painted during the 1760s. The painting departed from convention of the time by depicting a scientific subject in the reverential manner formerly reserved for scenes of historical or religious significance. Wright was intimately involved in depicting the Industrial Revolution and the scientific advances of the Enlightenment, but while his paintings were recognized as something out of the ordinary by his contemporaries, his provincial status and choice of subjects meant the style was never widely imitated. The picture has been owned by the National Gallery, London since 1863 and is still regarded as a masterpiece of British art. The painting depicts a natural philosopher, a forerunner of the modern scientist, recreating one of Robert Boyle's air pump experiments, in which a bird is deprived of air, before a varied group of onlookers. The group exhibits a variety of reactions, but for most of the audience scientific curiosity overcomes concern for the bird. The central figure looks out of the picture as if inviting the viewer's participation in the outcome."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Tribute_Money_(Titian)","descr":"The Tribute Money (Italian: Cristo della moneta - literally Christ of the money) is a circa 1516 oil painting by Titian, now held at the Gem\u00e4ldegalerie Alte Meister in Dresden. It is signed \"Ticianus F. [ecit ecit]\". It depicts Christ and a Pharisee at the moment in the Gospels when Christ is shown a coin and says \"Render unto Caesar...\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_a_Young_Woman_(La_Muta)","descr":"The Portrait of a Young Woman, also known as La Muta, is a portrait by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael, c. 1507-1508. It is housed in the Galleria Nazionale delle Marche, in Urbino. The picture portrays an unknown noblewoman over a near-black background, showing some Leonardesque influences. Although only recently attributed to Raphael, it is ranked among the best portraits by his hand. The neatness of the large areas of colour which emerge in lighter tones from the background, and the analytical treatment of the details of the woman's clothing are characteristic of Raphael. The dispersive effect of this attention to detail is fully compensated by the tones of colour - used here in a fairly limited range - which unify the composition as a whole. X-ray analysis have showed the presence of an early Raphael years drawing under the painting, showing a female, young face with soft features, with later modifications."},{"label":"DBpedia:Peace_Concluded","descr":"Peace Concluded, 1856 (1856) is a painting by John Everett Millais which depicts a wounded British officer reading The Times newspaper's report of the end of the Crimean war. It was exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1856 to mixed reviews, but was strongly endorsed by the critic John Ruskin who proclaimed that in the future it would be recognised as \"among the world's best masterpieces\". The central figure in the painting is a portrait of Millais's wife Effie Gray, who had previously been married to Ruskin, but had left her husband for the artist."},{"label":"DBpedia:Westward_the_Course_of_Empire_Takes_Its_Way","descr":"Westward the Course of Empire Takes Its Way (also known as Westward Ho) is a 20-by-30-foot (\u00a0m \u00d7\u00a0\u00a0m) painted mural currently displayed behind the western staircase of the House of Representatives chamber in the United States Capitol Building. The mural was painted by Emanuel Gottlieb Leutze in 1861 and symbolizes Manifest Destiny, the belief that the United States was destined for Western exploration and expansion originating from the initial colonies along the Atlantic seaboard to the Pacific Ocean. A study measuring 33+\u20444 by 43+\u20448 inches (\u00a0cm \u00d7\u00a0\u00a0cm) hangs in the Smithsonian American Art Museum."},{"label":"DBpedia:Men_of_Destiny","descr":"Men of Destiny is a painting by Irish artist, Jack Butler Yeats, painted in 1946. An oil artwork on canvas, the modernist piece is noted for the strength and vibrancy of its colour palette and is considered to rank amongst Yeats' best work. The painting is on permanent display at the National Gallery of Ireland."},{"label":"DBpedia:Apollo_in_the_Forge_of_Vulcan","descr":"Apollo in the Forge of Vulcan is an oil painting by Diego de Vel\u00e1zquez completed after his first visit to Italy in 1629. Critics agree that the work should be dated to 1630, the same year as his companion painting \"Joseph's Tunic\". It appears that neither of the two paintings were commissioned by the king, although both became part of the royal collections within a short time. The painting became part of the collection of the Museo del Prado, in Madrid in 1819."},{"label":"DBpedia:Vision_After_the_Sermon","descr":"Vision after the Sermon is an oil painting by French artist Paul Gauguin in 1888. It is now in the National Gallery of Scotland, Edinburgh. It depicts a scene from The Bible, where Jacob wrestles an angel. It depicts this indirectly, through a vision or hallucination that the women depicted see after a sermon in church. It was painted in Pont-Aven, Brittany, France."},{"label":"DBpedia:April_Love_(Hughes_painting)","descr":"April Love is a painting by the Pre-Raphaelite painter Arthur Hughes which was created between 1855 and 1856. It was first exhibited at the Royal Academy of Arts in 1856. At its first showing Hughes accompanied the painting with an extract from Tennyson's poem \"The Miller's Daughter\": Love is hurt with jar and fret,\u003C\/br\u003E Love is made a vague regret,\u003C\/br\u003E Eyes with idle tears are set,\u003C\/br\u003E Idle habit links us yet;\u003C\/br\u003E What is Love? For we forget. \u003C\/br\u003E Ah no, no. Originally acquired by William Morris, the painting was purchased by the Tate Gallery, London in 1909 and has remained in the Tate collection to the present day. It shows a distinctly Pre-Raphelite style in which a soft approach to nature and feminity is found. Bright colors and red-haired women as well as an emphasis on nature and symbolism characterize this style which can be found in the late 180s as a response to industrialization. The painting depicts a young couple at a moment of emotional crisis. The male figure is barely visible, his head bent over the young woman's left hand. The woman is looking down at fallen blossoms, suggesting the end of spring, and of early and young love. The model for the principal figure was Tryphena Ford, who Hughes married in 1855."},{"label":"DBpedia:Galatea_(Raphael)","descr":"The Triumph of Galatea is a fresco masterpiece completed in 1512 by the Italian painter Raphael for the Villa Farnesina in Rome. The Farnesina was built for the Sienese banker Agostino Chigi, one of the richest men of that age. The Farnese family later acquired and renamed the villa, smaller than the more ostentatious palazzo at the other side of the Tiber. The fresco is a mythological scene of a series embellishing the open gallery of the building, a series never completed which was inspired to the \"Stanze per la giostra\" of the poet Angelo Poliziano. In Greek mythology, the beautiful Nereid Galatea had fallen in love with the peasant shepherd Acis. Her consort, one-eyed giant Polyphemus, after chancing upon the two lovers together, lobbed an enormous pillar and killed Acis. Raphael did not paint any of the main events of the story. He chose the scene of the nymph's apotheosis (Stanze, I, 118-119). Galatea appears surrounded by other sea creatures whose forms are somewhat inspired by Michelangelo, whereas the bright colors and decoration are supposed to be inspired by ancient Roman painting. At the left, a Triton (partly man, partly fish) abducts a sea nymph; behind them, another Triton uses a shell as a trumpet. Galatea rides a shell-chariot drawn by two dolphins. While some have seen in the model for Galatea the image of the courtesan, Imperia, Agostino Chigi's lover, Raphael's near-contemporary, the artist and art biographer Giorgio Vasari, wrote that Raphael did not mean for Galatea to resemble any one human person, but to represent ideal beauty. Her gaze is directed upward to heaven, reflecting Platonic love."},{"label":"DBpedia:Esther_(Millais_painting)","descr":"Esther (1865) is a painting by John Everett Millais depicting the central character from the Biblical Book of Esther. It is from Millais's Aesthetic phase, when he was influenced by the work of Frederic Leighton and James McNeill Whistler. The painting depicts Esther, the Jewish wife of the Persian king Ahasuerus, as she prepares to enter the presence of her husband. As she is uninvited, she risks death, but does so to inform him of a plot against the Jews. Millais borrowed the Yellow Jacket, a gown given to General Gordon by the Chinese emperor after his defeat of the Taiping rebellion. In order to create a culturally unspecific effect, he turned it inside out, producing the abstract patterns visible in the painting. Millais creates a dramatic visual effect by vivid contrasts of colours, setting the deep blue of the curtain against the yellow dress and the white columns. The minimising of the narrative aspect of the scene is also in line with the Aestheticist approach of the artists he is imitating and challenging. Esther is depicted adjusting pearls in her hair, as she prepares to place her crown on her head. This gesture is derived from paintings by Titian, whose techniques of colouring Millais imitates, along with the modelling of the face and the characteristic \"Titian blonde\" hair. This also compares with the lush red locks of Millais's earlier picture The Bridesmaid and with some contemporary works by Dante Gabriel Rossetti. Millais's biographer Marion Spielmann wrote that the painting was \"the most modernly treated of Millais's early works... more consonant in its strong harmony with the audacious brilliancy of the present day [1898 1898] than the more solid strength of forty years ago.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Whistler's_Mother","descr":"Arrangement in Grey and Black No.1, famous under its colloquial name Whistler's Mother, is an 1871 oil-on-canvas painting by American-born painter James McNeill Whistler. The painting is 56.81 by 63.94 inches (\u00a0cm \u00d7\u00a0\u00a0cm), displayed in a frame of Whistler's own design in the Mus\u00e9e d'Orsay in Paris, having been bought by the French state in 1891. It is now one of the most famous works by an American artist outside the United States. It has been variously described as an American icon and a Victorian Mona Lisa."},{"label":"DBpedia:Canigiani_Holy_Family_(Raphael)","descr":"The Canigiani Holy Family or Canigiani Madonna is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael. It is in the Alte Pinakothek of Munich, Germany."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_a_Young_Man_with_a_Golden_Chain","descr":"Portrait of a Young Man with a Gold Chain is an oil painting usually attributed to the Dutch painter Rembrandt. Signed and dated 1635, it was traditionally regarded as a self-portrait (under the title Self-Portrait with Beard Rising or Self-Portrait with a Gold Chain), although contemporary criticism tends to challenge this hypothesis. The accreditation of this work to Rembrandt is old and supported by various documents and graphic records dating back to the seventeenth century. However, a report by the Rembrandt Research Project in 1989 assigned it to the \"circle\" of the Dutch master. This new assignment was controversial: the opinion was challenged by Pietro Maria Bardi and Luiz Marques, among other experts, who credit the authorship of the painting to Rembrandt. The work is currently preserved at the S\u00e3o Paulo Museum of Art."},{"label":"DBpedia:San_Giacomo_dell'Orio_Altarpiece","descr":"The San Giacomo dell'Orio Altarpiece (or Madonna and Four Saints) is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Lorenzo Lotto, dating from 1546 and housed in the church of San Giacomo dell'Orio in Venice. It is signed and dated on the cartouche hanging at the throne's base, reading \"In tempo de Maistro Defendi de Federigo et compagni 1546 Lor. Lot\". The canvas is one of the last works executed by Lotto in Venice, before moving to the Marche."},{"label":"DBpedia:Langlois_Bridge_at_Arles_(Van_Gogh_series)","descr":"The Langlois Bridge at Arles is the subject of four oil paintings, one watercolor and four drawings by Vincent van Gogh. The works, made in 1888 when Van Gogh lived in Arles, in southern France, represent a melding of formal and creative aspects. Van Gogh leverages a perspective frame that he built and used in The Hague to create precise lines and angles when portraying perspective. Van Gogh was influenced by Japanese woodcut prints, as evidenced by his simplified use of color to create a harmonious and unified image. Contrasting colors, such as blue and yellow, were used to bring a vibrancy to the works. He painted with an impasto, or thickly applied paint, using color to depict the reflection of light. The subject matter, a drawbridge on a canal, reminded him of his homeland in the Netherlands. He asked his brother Theo to frame and send one of the paintings to an art dealer in the Netherlands. The reconstructed Langlois Bridge is now named Pont Van-Gogh."},{"label":"DBpedia:Brera_Madonna","descr":"The Brera Madonna (also known as the Pala di Brera, the Montefeltro Altarpiece or Brera Altarpiece) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Piero della Francesca, executed in 1472-1474. It is housed in the Pinacoteca di Brera of Milan, where it was deposited by Napoleon. The work, of a type known as a sacra conversazione, was commissioned by Federico III da Montefeltro, Duke of Urbino, to celebrate the birth of Federico's son, Guidobaldo. According to other sources, it would celebrate his conquest of several castles in the Maremma."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Origin_of_the_Milky_Way_(Tintoretto)","descr":"The Origin of the Milky Way is a painting by the Italian late Renaissance master Jacopo Tintoretto (1575-1580), in the National Gallery, London, formerly in the Orleans Collection. According to myth, the infant Heracles was brought to Hera by his half-sister Athena, who later played an important role as a goddess of protection. Hera nursed Heracles out of pity, but he suckled so strongly that he caused Hera pain, and she pushed him away. Her milk sprayed across the heavens and there formed the Milky Way. With divine milk, Heracles acquired supernatural powers."},{"label":"DBpedia:Holy_Kinship","descr":"Holy Kinship was a popular theme in religious art throughout Germany and the Low Countries, especially during the late 15th and early 16th centuries. The Holy Kin were the extended family of Jesus descended from his maternal grandmother St. Anne. According to this tradition, St. Anne, the mother of the Virgin Mary, was grandmother not just to Jesus but also to five of the twelve apostles: John the Evangelist, James the Greater, James the Less, Simon and Jude. These apostles, together with John the Baptist, were all cousins of Jesus. The genealogy holds that Anne\u2019s sister, Hismeria (or Esmeria), was the mother of John the Baptist\u2019s mother Elizabeth and of a second child, Eliud, who was in turn the grandfather of St. Servatius. The basis for this family tree rests upon the trinubium, the tradition that Anne had married three times. The exact lineage, as laid out in Jacobus de Voragine\u2019s Golden Legend, runs thus: Anna solet dici tres concepisse Marias, Quas genuere viri Joachim, Cleophas, Salomeque. Has duxere viri Joseph, Alpheus, Zebedeus. Prima parit Christum, Jacobum secunda minorem, Et Joseph justum peperit cum Simone Judam, Tertia majorem Jacobum volucremque Johannem. (Anna is usually said to have conceived three Marys, Whom her husbands Joachim, Cleophas, and Salome begot. These the men Joseph, Alpheus, and Zebedee took in marriage. The first bore Christ; the second bore James the Less, Joseph the Just, with Simon Jude; The third, James the Greater and the winged John. ) The first theologian to set forth the concept of the trinubium was Haymo of Halberstadt, in his Historiae sacrae epitome, in which he outlined the family tree described above."},{"label":"DBpedia:Maest%C3%A0_(Duccio)","descr":"The Maest\u00e0, or Maest\u00e0 of Duccio is an altarpiece composed of many individual paintings commissioned by the city of Siena in 1308 from the artist Duccio di Buoninsegna. The front panels make up a large enthroned Madonna and Child with saints and angels, and a predella of the Childhood of Christ with prophets. The reverse has the rest of a combined cycle of the Life of the Virgin and the Life of Christ in a total of forty-three small scenes; several panels are now dispersed or lost. The base of the panel has an inscription that reads: \"Holy Mother of God, be thou the cause of peace for Siena and life to Duccio because he painted thee thus. \" Though it took a generation for its effect truly to be felt, Duccio's Maest\u00e0 set Italian painting on a course leading away from the hieratic representations of Byzantine art towards more direct presentations of reality."},{"label":"DBpedia:L'Absinthe","descr":"L'Absinthe is a painting by Edgar Degas. Some original title translations are A sketch of a French Caf\u00e9, then Figures at Caf\u00e9, the title was finally changed in 1893 to L'Absinthe (the name the piece is known by today). It is now in the permanent collection of the Mus\u00e9e d'Orsay in Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Jim_Morrison_Triptych","descr":"The Jim Morrison Triptych is an oil painting by American artist T. E. Breitenbach (best known for his painting Proverbidioms). It is a so-called \"lost\" collaboration with Jim Morrison of The Doors, intended for use on Morrison's An American Prayer album, and completed shortly before Morrison's death."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Inspiration_of_the_Poet","descr":"The Inspiration of the Poet is an oil-on-canvas by artist in the classical style Nicolas Poussin, painted between 1629 and 1630. It is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:Basket_of_Bread","descr":"Basket of Bread (1945) or Basket of Bread-Rather Death Than Shame is a painting by Spanish Surrealist Salvador Dal\u00ed. The painting depicts a heel of a loaf bread in a basket, sitting near the edge of a table. Dal\u00ed's use of bread in his paintings is much more than a staple of one's diet. In this case, to understand Dal\u00ed's message, one must look at the political context at the time of the painting, his progression as an artist, his societal beliefs and how bread is used in the painting."},{"label":"DBpedia:Souvenir_de_Mortefontaine","descr":"Souvenir de Mortefontaine (Recollection of Mortefontaine) is a 1864 oil-on-canvas painting by French artist Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. It is a scene of tranquillity: a woman and children quietly enjoying themselves by a glass-flat, tree-flanked lake. Generally acknowledged as one of his masterpieces, it is among the most successful of Corot's later, more poetic works. The painting captures an idealized scene while still drawing from the real world. Corot's early painting showed Realist leanings, but as his career progressed he began to combine more Romantic elements, and his works are often viewed as a bridge between Realism and the evolving Impressionist movement. Souvenir de Mortefontaine verges on the Impressionistic, with the lake and landscape captured by broad rather than detailed strokes and Corot's careful attention to the play of light within the scene, though the brushwork is precise and the painting has a more muted palette than the bright colours favoured by the Impressionists. The indistinct features are reminiscent of the blurry details of early landscape photography; Corot had a large collection of these photographs and may have been attempting to recreate the effect in paint. Mortefontaine is a small village in the Oise d\u00e9partement in northern France. Corot made frequent visits to the area in the 1850s to study the effects of light and reflection on water. In Souvenir de Mortefontaine Corot was not producing a scene from life, but (as the title suggests) his recollections of his visits and the play of light on the ponds in the village. Corot produced a second similar painting, The Boatman of Mortefontaine (1865\u201370), which shows the same lake and trees from the same perspective. Changes in the features of the landscape in The Boatman from those depicted in Souvenir hint at the paintings being generalised impressions rather than details captured from life. Souvenir de Mortefontaine was purchased in 1864 for the French state directly from Corot through Napoleon III's Civil List, and after hanging at Fontainebleau for 25 years it was transferred to the Louvre in 1889."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Hallucinogenic_Toreador","descr":"The Hallucinogenic Toreador (1968\u20131970) is an oil painting. Salvador Dal\u00ed painted it in 1970, following the canons of his particular interpretation of surrealist thought. It is currently being exhibited at the Salvador Dali Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida. In this piece, Dali transmits his wife's dislike for bullfighting. By combining symbolism with optical illusions and estranging yet familiar motifs, he creates his own visual language. His application of the paranoiac-critical method within this painting combines versatile images as an instructive example of his artistic creation."},{"label":"DBpedia:Wanderer_above_the_Sea_of_Fog","descr":"Wanderer above the Sea of Fog (German: Der Wanderer \u00fcber dem Nebelmeer; also known as Wanderer Above the Mist) is an oil painting composed in 1818 by the German Romantic artist Caspar David Friedrich. It currently resides in the Kunsthalle Hamburg in Hamburg, Germany."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Disquieting_Muses","descr":"The Disquieting Muses is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. The Disquieting Muses was painted during World War I, when De Chirico was in Ferrara. The Castello Estense, near which de Chirico lived, is in the background, rust-red and among industrial buildings. At the front are the two Muses, dressed in classical clothing. One is standing and the other sitting, and they are placed among various objects, including a red mask and staff, an allusion to Melpomene and Thalia, the Muses of tragedy and comedy. The statue on a pedestal in the background is Apollo, leader of the Muses. Giorgio Castelfranco, an art collector and critic, described the painting in 1948: The spaces are dominated and interpenetrated fantastically, to such an extent that, at times, the lyric simultaneity of different coordinate systems is reached; this clearly happens in Metaphysical Interior and also in The Disquieting Muse where the box in the foreground is seen through the sitting Muse's perspective, and therefore, for the onlooker, in reversed perspective... de Chirico's peculiar mindset and culture in those years, founded in a vein of art and thought that is definitely\u2014broadly speaking\u2014anti-impressionist: an idealistic critique on the categories of time and space, which had found pathetic, alluring terms in Schopenauer's oneric-critique, and also that of young Nietzsche with regard to the interpretation of Greek tragedy, as well as German illustration tending to classicism, which also took the enigmatic side of ancient myths into consideration. The artist Carlo Belli discussed the merits of the painting in a letter to the collector Feroldi in 1939: [I I]t is not the strangeness of the subject that makes this work a great thing, but the marvel that can arise from the unusual positioning of the objects that make up the landscape which can determine the painting's worth. It is the conscious elevation of the human spirit to a higher plane, the carrying of this life into a superior zone where everything is order and light, philosophical silence and measure [... ... ] put two human figures in place of the mannequins [... ... ] the faces will have their own expression and that expression will inescapably drag the work on a lower plane [... ... ] the chronicle of psychological palpitation [... ... ] holds the place which should be held by the sublime [... ... ] The fantastic creatures that dwell in the de Chirican landscape contemplate reality and pour into us the amazement they feel sitting at the edge of eternity. This painting would later become the inspiration for Sylvia Plath's poem \"The Disquieting Muses\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:Landscape,_Branchville","descr":"Landscape, Branchville (also Branchville Lane or Branchville) is an oil on canvas painting by John Henry Twachtman. Painted c. 1888, it is Twachtman's largest known work, and was painted in front of the home of his friend J. Alden Weir."},{"label":"DBpedia:Shirley_Temple,_The_Youngest,_Most_Sacred_Monster_of_the_Cinema_in_Her_Time","descr":"Shirley Temple, The Youngest, Most Sacred Monster of the Cinema in Her Time (or Shirley Temple, The Youngest, Most Sacred Monster of Contemporary Cinema), also known as the Barcelona Sphinx is a 1939 artwork in gouache, pastel and collage on cardboard, by surrealist painter Salvador Dal\u00ed. It measures 75 cm x 100 cm (29.5 inches x 39.5 inches). It is housed in the Netherlands, at Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen, Rotterdam's principal art gallery. The painting depicts the child star Shirley Temple as a sphinx. Shirley Temple's head, taken from a newspaper photograph, is superimposed on the body of a red lioness with breasts and white claws. On top of the head is a vampire bat. Surrounding the sphinx are a human skull and other bones, suggesting her latest kill. At the bottom of the painting is a trompe-l'\u0153il label that reads: \"Shirley!. at last in Technicolor. \" The painting has been described as a satire on the sexualization of child stars by Hollywood. The painting was first shown at an exhibition held at the Julien Levy Gallery, New York, from March 21 to April 18, 1939 (although the exhibition catalogue does not mention the painting, an article in the New York Times mentions its presence). It has also been exhibited in 1983 at the Palau Reial de Pedralbes in Barcelona, in 1985 at the Palais des Beaux Arts in Charleroi, and again in Barcelona in 2004, at the CaixaForum. From June 1 to September 9, 2007 it was one of around 100 Dali works on display at the Tate Modern in London as part of the \"Dali And Film\" exhibition."},{"label":"DBpedia:Self-portrait_(Thomas_Eakins)","descr":"Self-portrait is an oil on canvas painting by Thomas Eakins, presented as a diploma piece upon his election as an Associate member of the National Academy of Design in 1902. Although Eakins included himself as an observer or participant in group portraits and genre scenes, this and a smaller unsigned and undated oil, thought to have been made at about the same time, are the only unadorned self-portraits he ever painted. Lloyd Goodrich wrote that it \"is not only one of his finest head and bust likenesses, but a revealing human document; in the direct look of his remarkable eyes one can see strength, penetrating intelligence, and a touch of ironic humor.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Study_after_Vel%C3%A1zquez's_Portrait_of_Pope_Innocent_X","descr":"Study after Vel\u00e1zquez's Portrait of Pope Innocent X is a 1953 painting by the Irish artist Francis Bacon. The work shows a distorted version of the Portrait of Innocent X painted by the Spanish artist Diego Vel\u00e1zquez in 1650. The work is one of a series of variants of the Vel\u00e1zquez painting which Bacon executed throughout the 1950s and early 1960s, a total of over 45 works. The picture was described by Gilles Deleuze as an example of creative re-interpretation of the classical. When asked why he was compelled to revisit the subject so often, Bacon replied that he had nothing against the Popes, that he merely sought \"an excuse to use these colours, and you can't give ordinary clothes that purple colour without getting into a sort of false fauve manner. \" In Bacon's version of Vel\u00e1zquez's masterpiece, the Pope is shown screaming yet his voice is \"silenced\" by the enclosing drapes and dark rich colors. The dark colors of the background lend a grotesque and nightmarish tone to the painting. The pleated curtains of the backdrop are rendered transparent and appear to fall through the representation of the Pope's face."},{"label":"DBpedia:Conestabile_Madonna","descr":"The Conestabile Madonna is a small (and probably unfinished) painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. It was likely the last work painted by Raphael in Umbria before moving to Florence. Its name comes from the Conestabile family of Perugia, from whom it was acquired by Alexander II of Russia in 1871. The Tsar presented it to his consort, Maria Alexandrovna. Since then, the painting has been on exhibit in the Hermitage Museum of St. Petersburg. The painting portrays the Madonna holding the Child while reading a book. In 1881, when the picture was moved to canvas, it was discovered that in the original version the Madonna contemplated a pomegranate (symbol of the Passion) instead of the book."},{"label":"DBpedia:Flowering_Orchards_(Van_Gogh_series)","descr":"The Flowering Orchards is a series of paintings executed by Vincent van Gogh in Arles, in southern France in the spring of 1888. Van Gogh arrived in Arles in February 1888 amid a snowstorm, within two weeks the weather changed and the fruit trees were in blossom. Appreciating the symbolism of rebirth, Van Gogh worked with optimism and zeal on about fourteen paintings of flowering trees in the early spring. He also made paintings of flowering trees in Saint-R\u00e9my in 1889. Flowering trees were special to Van Gogh. They represented awakening and hope. He enjoyed them aesthetically and found joy in painting flowering trees. The 'trees and orchards in bloom' paintings Van Gogh made reflect Impressionist, Divisionist and Japanese woodcut influences."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Battle_of_San_Romano","descr":"The Battle of San Romano is a set of three paintings by the Florentine painter Paolo Uccello depicting events that took place at the Battle of San Romano between Florentine and Sienese forces in 1432. They are significant as revealing the development of linear perspective in early Italian Renaissance painting, and are unusual as a major secular commission. The paintings are in egg tempera on wooden panels, each over 3 metres long. According to the National Gallery, the panels were commissioned by a member of the Bartolini Salimbeni family in Florence sometime between 1435 and 1460. The paintings were much admired in the 15th century; Lorenzo de' Medici so coveted them that he purchased one and had the remaining two forcibly removed to the Palazzo Medici. They are now divided between three collections, the National Gallery, London, the Galleria degli Uffizi and the Mus\u00e9e du Louvre, Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Pier_Maria_Rossi_di_San_Secondo","descr":"Portrait of Pier Maria Rossi di San Secondo is a painting by the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino, executed around 1535\u20131539 and housed in the Museo del Prado, Madrid, Spain. The subject was Count of San Secundo, and the painting forms a pair with a group portrait of his Countess and their children, Portrait of Camilla Gonzaga and Her Three Sons, although the latter is not unanimously attributed to Parmigianino."},{"label":"DBpedia:Soft_Construction_with_Boiled_Beans_(Premonition_of_Civil_War)","descr":"Soft Construction with Boiled Beans (Premonition of Civil War) (1936) is a painting by Spanish Surrealist Salvador Dal\u00ed. Dali made this painting to represent the horrors of the Spanish Civil War. Dali painted this work six months before the Spanish Civil War had even begun and then claimed that he had known the war was going to happen in order to appear to have prophet-like abilities due to \"the prophetic power of his subconscious mind. \" Dali may have changed the name of the painting after the war in a manner of proving this prophetic quality, though it is not entirely certain."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Wheat_Field","descr":"The Wheat Field is a series of oil paintings executed by Vincent van Gogh in Saint-R\u00e9my-de-Provence. All of them depict the view Van Gogh had from the window of his bedroom on the top floor of the asylum: a field enclosed by stone walls just beneath his window and excluded from normal life by the rear wall of the asylum grounds; beyond this enclosure farm land, accompanied by olive groves and vineyards, ran up to the hills at the foot of the mountain range called Les Alpilles. From May 1889 to May 1890, Van Gogh recorded this view in changing settings: after a storm, with a reaper in the field, with fresh wheat raising in autumn and with flowers in the spring. This is one of Van Gogh's major series from Saint-R\u00e9my, comprising wonderful works such as the Wheat Field at Sunrise in the Kr\u00f6ller-M\u00fcller Museum. Van Gogh included the Enclosed Field with Rising Sun (F737) made in December 1889 in his Display at Les XX 1890 in Brussels."},{"label":"DBpedia:Midvinterblot","descr":"Midvinterblot is a painting created for the hall of the central staircase in Nationalmuseum in Stockholm by the Swedish painter Carl Larsson in 1915. It is Sweden's most debated painting. The painting depicts a legend from Norse mythology in which the Swedish king Domalde was sacrificed in order to avert a famine. After a long controversy it was rejected by the museum, but the debate resurfaced again in the late 20th century, after which it was finally honoured with the place where Carl Larsson intended it to be."},{"label":"DBpedia:Music_(Matisse)","descr":"Music (La Musique) is a painting made by Henri Matisse in 1910. The painting was commissioned by Sergei Shchukin, who hung it with Dance on the staircase of his Moscow mansion. Matisse made the painting without any preparatory sketches, and thus the painting bears many traces of modifications. One can virtually trace the steps Matisse took to find the intended effect. Like in Dance, the aim was to show man's attainment of a state of completeness by immersion in creativity. The painting is now in the collection of the Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg, Russia."},{"label":"DBpedia:Butterflies_(Van_Gogh_series)","descr":"Butterflies is a series paintings made by Vincent van Gogh in 1889 and 1890. Van Gogh made at least four paintings of butterflies and one of a moth. The metamorphosis of the caterpillar into a butterfly was symbolic to Van Gogh of men and women's capability for transformation."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Daniele_Barbaro","descr":"The Portrait of Daniele Barbaro is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Paolo Veronese (from circa 1565-1567), belonging to the collection of the Rijksmuseum Amsterdam. There is a portrait by Veronese in the Pitti Palace, Florence, which has been described as Barbaro dressed as a Venetian aristocrat, but this identification is not certain. Barbaro was also portrayed by Titian."},{"label":"DBpedia:Drunkenness_of_Noah_(Bellini)","descr":"Drunkenness of Noah is a painting by the Italian artist Giovanni Bellini. It was Finished about 1515. it is kept in the Museum of Fine Arts and Archeology of Besan\u00e7on, France."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Boyhood_of_Raleigh","descr":"The Boyhood of Raleigh is a painting by John Everett Millais, which was exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1871. It came to epitomise the culture of heroic imperialism in late Victorian Britain and in British popular culture up to the mid-twentieth century. The painting depicts the young, wide-eyed Sir Walter Raleigh and his brother sitting on the beach by the Devonshire coast. He is listening to a story of life on the seas, told by an experienced sailor who points out to the sea."},{"label":"DBpedia:St._Michael_(Raphael)","descr":"St. Michael is an oil painting by Italian artist Raphael. Also called the Little St. Michael to distinguish it from a larger, later treatment of the same theme, St. Michael Vanquishing Satan, it is housed in the Louvre in Paris. The work depicts the Archangel Michael in combat with the demons of Hell, while the damned suffer behind him. Along with St. George, it represents the first of Raphael's works on martial subjects."},{"label":"DBpedia:Disputation_of_the_Holy_Sacrament","descr":"The Disputation of the Sacrament (Italian: La disputa del sacramento), or Disputa, is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. It was painted between 1509 and 1510 as only the first part of Raphael's commission to decorate with frescoes the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. At the time, this room was known as the Stanza della Segnatura, and was the private papal library where the supreme papal tribunal met."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Count_Stanislas_Potocki","descr":"The Portrait of Count Stanislas Potocki is a 1780 equestrian portrait of the Polish patron, politician and writer Stanis\u0142aw Kostka Potocki by the French painter Jacques-Louis David. It was painted in Rome when the artist and subject met during David's stay at the Villa Medici after winning the first prize for painting in the Prix de Rome, and chronologically after his Saint Roch interceding with the Virgin for the Plague-Stricken and before Belisarius begging for alms. Its equestrian format is owed to influences from Rubens. It was first owned by Potocki (who displayed it in the palace at Wilan\u00f3w) before passing to the Branicki family in 1892. During the Second World War it was looted by the German forces, then passed into Soviet Russian hands after the war, before being repatriated to Poland in 1956. It is now on show in the Wilan\u00f3w Palace Museum in Warsaw."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Ambassadors_(Holbein)","descr":"The Ambassadors (1533) is a painting by Hans Holbein the Younger in the National Gallery, London. As well as being a double portrait, the painting contains a still life of several meticulously rendered objects, the meaning of which is the cause of much debate. It is also a much-cited example of anamorphosis in painting."},{"label":"DBpedia:St._Mark_Enthroned","descr":"St. Mark Enthroned is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Titian, executed in 1510 or 1511, and housed in the church of Santa Maria della Salute in Venice, Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Forge_(Goya)","descr":"The Forge is a c. 1817 painting by Francisco Goya (1746\u20131828), today housed in the Frick Collection in New York City. The large oil on canvas represents three blacksmiths toiling over an anvil, and has been described by the art historian Fred Licht as \"undoubtedly the most complete statement of Goya's late style.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Young_Spartans_Exercising","descr":"Young Spartans Exercising, also known as Young Spartans, is an oil on canvas painting by French impressionist artist Edgar Degas. The work depicts two groups of male and female Spartan youths exercising, though the subject matter of the painting has, in recent times, been challenged. The work is now in the permanent collection of The National Gallery in London."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Stonebreaker","descr":"The Stonebreaker is an 1857 oil-on-canvas painting by Henry Wallis. It depicts a manual labourer who appears to be asleep, worn out by his work, but has actually been worked to death. The painting was first exhibited in 1858 at the Royal Academy in London and was highly acclaimed. Many viewers assumed the man was sleeping, worn out by his day of hard but honest labour. Wallis gave no outright statement that the man depicted was dead, but there are many suggestions to this effect. The frame was inscribed with a line paraphrased from Tennyson's A Dirge (1830): \"Now is thy long day's work done\"; the muted colours and setting sun give a feeling of finality; the man's posture indicates that his hammer has slipped from his grasp as he was working rather than being laid aside while he rests, and his body is so still that a stoat, only visible on close examination, has climbed onto his right foot. The painting's listing in the catalogue was accompanied by a long passage from Thomas Carlyle's \"Helotage\", a chapter in his Sartor Resartus, which extols the virtues of the working man and laments that \"thy body like thy soul was not to know freedom\". Wallis is believed to have painted The Stonebreaker as a commentary on the Poor Law Amendment Act of 1834 which had formalised the workhouse system for paupers and discouraged other forms of relief for the poor. The able-bodied poor were forced into long hours of manual labour in order to qualify for the lodgings and food provided by the workhouse and the gruelling work sometimes resulted in the death of the workers. Carlyle's accompanying passage also has strong words for supporters of the workhouses: Perhaps in the most thickly-peopled country, some three days annually might suffice to shoot all the able-bodied Paupers that had accumulated during the year. It was later claimed that by this painting, Wallis moved away from the Pre-Raphaelite principles towards those of an early Victorian Social Realism. However, for Wallis' contemporaries, The Stonebreaker consolidated his reputation as a true Pre-Raphaelite. The dead man wears the smock of an agricultural labourer which suggests that in former times he would have been employed year-round on a farm. Changing social conditions have robbed him of his employment and forced him instead to accept the charity of the workhouse and the arduous job of flint-knapping to produce material for the roads. The painting provides a strong contrast with John Brett's painting of the same name, completed the year after Wallis's version. Brett's Stonebreaker shows another pauper breaking rocks, but this time it is a smartly dressed, well-nourished boy, accompanied by a playful puppy, working away in a bright, sunlit landscape. Brett's painting made his reputation. The details are captured with a scientific accuracy, and the painting was lauded by the art critic John Ruskin. It too makes a statement about the poor, although it lacks the hopelessness and finality of Wallis's painting, just as in Wallis's version there is an underlying realism that is not at first obvious: the boy is rosy-cheeked not because of healthy exercise, but because of the work he is forced to undertake; the puppy cavorts happily, but the boy, working for the chance of receiving charity, cannot afford to stop to play. Brett's painting is in the Walker Art Gallery, Liverpool. Although Wallis's technique was admired, his choice of subject divided the critics. The Illustrated London News found it shocking and offensive while The Spectator said it embodied \"the sacredness and solemnity which dwell in a human creature, however seared, and in death, however obscure\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:Annunciation_of_Fano","descr":"Annunciation of Fano is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Pietro Perugino, executed around 1488-1490, and housed in the church of Santa Maria Nuova, Fano, central Italy. The work was successful, and a few years later he was commissioned to paint an altarpiece for the same church, the so-called Fano Altarpiece."},{"label":"DBpedia:Galacidalacidesoxyribonucleicacid","descr":"Galacidalacidesoxyribonucleicacid (also known as Homage to Crick and Watson) is a 1963 painting by Salvador Dal\u00ed. The painting's title is a portmanteau of the name of Dali's wife, Gala Dal\u00ed, and Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). It is a tribute to Francis Crick and James D. Watson, who determined the double helical structure of DNA in 1953. The painting is in the collection of the Salvador Dal\u00ed Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida."},{"label":"DBpedia:Automat_(painting)","descr":"Automat is a painting by the American realist painter Edward Hopper. The painting was first displayed on Valentine\u2019s Day 1927 at the opening of Hopper\u2019s second solo show, at the Rehn Galleries in New York. By April it had been sold for $1,200. The painting is today owned by the Des Moines Art Center in Iowa."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Agnolo_Doni","descr":"The Portrait of Agnolo Doni is an oil painting by Italian Renaissance master Raphael, executed between 1506 and 1507. It is currently housed in the Pitti Palace in Florence."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Pope_Pius_VII","descr":"The Portrait of Pope Pius VII is an 1805 portrait of Pope Pius VII by the French painter Jacques Louis David to thank the pope for assisting at the coronation of Napoleon I of France. Pope Pius appears in David's The Coronation of Napoleon, depicted as blessing the emperor, when in fact he was merely a spectator, assisting at the ceremony with a resigned expression throughout."},{"label":"DBpedia:Violante_(Titian)","descr":"Violante is an oil painting attributed to Titian, dated to around 1515 and now held at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna."},{"label":"DBpedia:L'Asie","descr":"L'Asie is a painting by Henri Matisse. It is an oil on canvas painting from 1946. The painting is in the collection of and on public display at the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth, Texas (USA)."},{"label":"DBpedia:Nana_(painting)","descr":"Nana is a painting by French painter \u00c9douard Manet. It was completed in 1877, and was refused at the Salon of Paris the same year. The work is now at the Kunsthalle Hamburg art museum, in Germany."},{"label":"DBpedia:Nighthawks","descr":"Nighthawks is a 1942 painting by Edward Hopper that portrays people sitting in a downtown diner late at night. It is Hopper's most famous work and is one of the most recognizable paintings in American art. Within months of its completion, it was sold to the Art Institute of Chicago for $3,000, and has remained there ever since."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Expulsion_of_Heliodorus_from_the_Temple","descr":"The Expulsion of Heliodorus from the Temple is a fresco of the Italian renaissance painter Raphael. It was painted between 1511 and 1512 as part of Raphael's commission to decorate with frescoes the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the room that takes its name from it, the Stanza di Eliodoro. The Expulsion of Heliodorus from the Temple illustrates the biblical episode from 2 Maccabees . Heliodorus is ordered by Seleucus IV Philopator, the king of Syria, to seize the treasure preserved in the Temple in Jerusalem. Answering the prayers of the high priest Onias, God sends a horseman assisted by two youths to drive Heliodorus out. At the left, Raphael's patron, Julius II witnesses the scene from his litter."},{"label":"DBpedia:Sta%C5%84czyk_(painting)","descr":"Sta\u0144czyk is a painting by Jan Matejko finished in 1862. It is one of Matejko's most famous works and the one that launched him to fame. Its primary composition is the contrast between the solemn jester (the titular Sta\u0144czyk) and the lively ball going on in the background."},{"label":"DBpedia:Golconda_(painting)","descr":"Golconda is an oil painting on canvas by Belgian surrealist Ren\u00e9 Magritte, painted in 1953. It is usually housed at the Menil Collection in Houston, Texas. The piece depicts a scene of nearly identical men dressed in dark overcoats and bowler hats, who seem to be drops of heavy rain (or to be floating like helium balloons, though there is no actual indication of motion), against a backdrop of buildings and blue sky. The men are spaced in hexagonal grids facing the viewpoint and receding back in grid layers. Magritte himself lived in a similar suburban environment, and dressed in a similar fashion. The bowler hat was a common feature of much of his work, and appears in paintings like The Son of Man. Charly Herscovici, who was bequeathed copyright on the artist's works, commented on Golconda: \"Magritte was fascinated by the seductiveness of images. Ordinarily, you see a picture of something and you believe in it, you are seduced by it; you take its honesty for granted. But Magritte knew that representations of things can lie. These images of men aren't men, just pictures of them, so they don't have to follow any rules. This painting is fun, but it also makes us aware of the falsity of representation. \" One interpretation is that Magritte is demonstrating the line between individuality and group association, and how it is blurred. All of these men are dressed the same, have the same bodily features and are all floating\/falling. This leaves us to look at the men as a group. Whereas if we look at each person, we can predict that they may be completely different to another figure. As was often the case with Magritte's works, the title Golconda was found by his poet friend Louis Scutenaire. Golkonda is a ruined city in the state of Andhra Pradesh, India, near Hyderabad, which from the mid-14th century until the end of the 17th was the capital of two successive kingdoms; the fame it acquired through being the center of the region's legendary diamond industry was such that its name remains, according to the Oxford English Dictionary, \"a synonym for 'mine of wealth'. \" Magritte included a likeness of Scutenaire in the painting \u2013 his face is used for the large man by the chimney of the house on the right of the picture."},{"label":"DBpedia:Office_in_a_Small_City","descr":"Office in a Small City is a 1953 painting by the American realist painter Edward Hopper. It depicts a man sitting in a corner office surveying the landscape outdoors. The style is reminiscent of many of Hopper's works in that it depicts loneliness and beauty in a uniquely stark yet pleasing fashion. It is owned by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Stoning_of_Saint_Stephen","descr":"The Stoning of Saint Stephen is the first painting by Dutch artist Rembrandt, painted in 1625 at the age of 19. It is currently kept in the Mus\u00e9e des Beaux-Arts de Lyon. This work is inspired by the martyrdom of Saint Stephen which is recounted in Acts 7. This young deacon in the Christian community of Jerusalem was sentenced to death by stoning. The painting was influenced by the art of Caravaggio and Adam Elsheimer. It represents the moment when Stephen was stoned outside the city by his many tormentors (about twenty characters), and he utters his last words to Christ as the light around him shows that the heavens are open. The painting is divided into two distinct zones with a diagonal creating an effect of chiaroscuro: on the left, a man on horseback is in the shadow, and on the right, Stephen and his persecutors are in the light. Saul of Tarsus can be seen seated in the background holding in his lap the coats of the stoners. Some inaccuracies in the drawing can be seen. The character behind Stephen seems to be a self-portrait done into a wider composition, as Spanish painter Diego Vel\u00e1zquez did in Las Meninas. John Durham suggests that Rembrandt \"presents himself as a somewhat alarmed presence, a participant who may be having second thoughts about what was taking place.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Nativity_of_the_Virgin_(Pietro_Lorenzetti)","descr":"The Nativity of the Virgin is a painting by the Italian late medieval painter Pietro Lorenzetti, dating from around 1335-1342, now housed in the Museo dell'Opera del Duomo of Siena, Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Hungry_Lion_Throws_Itself_on_the_Antelope","descr":"The Hungry Lion Throws Itself on the Antelope (Le lion ayant faim se jette sur l'antilope) is a large oil-on-canvas painting created by Henri Rousseau in 1905. Following Scouts Attacked by a Tiger the previous year, The Hungry Lion was the second jungle painting to mark Rousseau's return to this genre after a 10 year hiatus caused by the generally negative reception to his 1891 painting Tiger in a Tropical Storm. The Hungry Lion features in a jungle scene of thick green foliage lit by a deep red setting sun. In the foreground, a lion bites deeply into the neck of an antelope. Other animals are visible in the dense undergrowth: a panther watches from the right, an owl stares out of the background holding a bloody strand of meat in its beak in the centre, with a second bird to its left, and dark ape-like shape with gimlet eye lurks to the left. Rousseau based the central pair of animals on a diorama of stuffed animals at the Paris Mus\u00e9um national d'histoire naturelle, entitled \"Senegal Lion Devouring an Antelope\". Rousseau's first jungle painting, Tiger in a Tropical Storm, was rejected by the Acad\u00e9mie de peinture et de sculpture for their official Paris Salon, but he was able to show it at the 1891 Salon des Ind\u00e9pendants. Despite his increasing reputation, Rousseau continued to exhibit his works at the annual Salon des Ind\u00e9pendants, but The Hungry Lion was first shown at a third show, the Salon d'Automne, in 1905, alongside works by Matisse and Derain. Rousseau wrote a longer subtitle or caption to accompany his painting: The magazine L'Illustration printed a copy of the work in its edition of 4 November 1905, with works by Matisse, Derain, C\u00e9zanne and Vuillard. The avante garde works on display at the 1905 Salon d'Automne were decried by art critic Louis Vauxcelles as \"Donatello au milieu des fauves!\" (\"Donatello among the wild beasts\"), contrasting the paintings with a Renaissance sculpture displayed in the same room at the Grand Palais. Vauxcelles' comment was printed on 17 October 1905 in Gil Blas, a daily newspaper, and the term Fauvism passed into popular usage for the type of work exhibited, of seeming simplicity in vibrant colours. The very term \"Fauvism\" may have been influenced directly by Rousseau's The Hungry Lion, although Rousseau was not himself counted as a Fauve. Despite their apparent simplicity, Rousseau's jungle paintings were built up meticulously in layers, using a large number of green shades to capture the lush exuberance of the jungle. Rousseau's work continued to be derided by the critics up to and after his death in 1910, but he won a following among his contemporaries: Picasso, Matisse, and Toulouse-Lautrec were all admirers of his work. The Hungry Lion is now held by the Fondation Beyeler and is exhibited at their gallery at Riehen, near Basel, in Switzerland but before in 1905, it was exhibited in the Salon des Independants, in Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Land_of_Cockaigne_(Bruegel)","descr":"The Land of Cockaigne is the subject of an oil painting by Pieter Bruegel the Elder. In medieval times, Cockaigne was a mythical land of plenty. Bruegel's depiction of Cockaigne and its residents is not meant to be a flattering one; he chooses rather a comic illustration of the spiritual emptiness believed to derive from gluttony and sloth, two of the seven deadly sins. In the painting, a clerk, a peasant farmer, and a soldier lie dozing on the ground underneath a table bound to a tree. The clerk's book, papers, ink and pen lie idle, as do the peasant's flail and the soldier's lance and gauntlet. A half-eaten egg in its shell runs between the peasant and the clerk. The table attached to the tree is laden with partly consumed food and drink. Behind the tree, a roasted fowl lays itself upon a silver platter, implying that it is ready to be eaten, and a roasted pig runs about with a carving knife already slipped under its skin. On the left, a knight emerges from a lean-to whose roof is covered in dishes of pie and pastry. On the right and behind the main action, a man clutching a spoon forces his way out of a large cloud of pudding, having eaten his way through it; he reaches for the bent branch of a tree in order to lower himself into Cockaigne. The fence enclosing the main scene behind the dozing trio is made of interwoven sausages. A partly eaten wheel of cheese and a bush or tower of loaves of bread sit on the left and right of the scene. The arrangement of the clerk, peasant, and soldier underneath the tree suggests the men as the spokes of a wheel, where the tree is the hub. The roasted fowl lies in the place where a fourth spoke could be. Ross Frank has argued that the painting is a political satire directed at the participants in the first stages of the Dutch Revolt, where the roasted fowl represents the humiliation and failure of the nobleman (who would otherwise form the fourth spoke of the wheel) in his leadership of the Netherlands, and the overall scene depicts the complacency of the Netherlandish people, too content with their abundance to take the risks that would bring about significant religious and political change. In Dutch, the name of the painting is \"Het Luilekkerland\", meaning \"the lazy-luscious-land.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Coronation_of_the_Virgin_(Fra_Angelico,_Uffizi)","descr":"The Coronation of the Virgin is a painting of the Coronation of the Virgin by the Italian early Renaissance painter Fra Angelico, executed around 1432. It is now in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence. The artist executed another Coronation of the Virgin (c. 1434-1435), now in the Louvre in Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Jewish_Bride","descr":"The Jewish Bride (Dutch: Het Joodse bruidje) is a painting by Rembrandt, painted around 1667. The painting gained its current name in the early 19th century, when an Amsterdam art collector identified the subject as that of a Jewish father bestowing a necklace upon his daughter on her wedding day. This interpretation is no longer accepted, and the identity of the couple is uncertain. The ambiguity is heightened by the lack of anecdotal context, leaving only the central universal theme, that of a couple joined in love. Speculative suggestions as to the couple's identity have ranged from Rembrandt's son Titus and his bride, or Amsterdam poet Miguel de Barrios and his wife. Also considered are several couples from the Old Testament, including Abraham and Sarah, or Boaz and Ruth. The likeliest identification, however, is that of Isaac and Rebekah, as described in Genesis 26:8, and is supported by a drawing by the artist of the same theme. While technical evidence suggests that Rembrandt initially envisioned a larger and more elaborate composition, the placement of his signature at lower left indicates that its current dimensions are not significantly different from those at the time of its completion. According to Rembrandt biographer Christoper White, the completed composition is \"one of the greatest expressions of the tender fusion of spiritual and physical love in the history of painting. \" The painting is in the permanent collection of the Rijksmuseum Amsterdam."},{"label":"DBpedia:Armada_Portrait","descr":"The Armada Portrait of Elizabeth I of England is the name of any of three surviving versions of an allegorical panel painting depicting the Tudor queen surrounded by symbols of imperial majesty against a backdrop representing the defeat of the Spanish Armada in 1588."},{"label":"DBpedia:Balbi_Holy_Conversation","descr":"Balbi Holy Conversation (Italian: Sacra conversazione, also known as Titian Madonna and Child with Sts Catherine and Dominic and a Donor) is an oil painting by the Italian late Renaissance painter Titian, dated to around 1513, and now held at the Fondazione Magnani-Rocca in Traversetolo, near Parma, northern Italy. The work was originally part of marquess Balbi's collection at Genoa, hence the name. It is a work from the artist's youth, set in an open landscape, with some Giorgione influences but already some personal elements, such as the asymmetrical composition and the full figures."},{"label":"DBpedia:Aldobrandini_Madonna","descr":"The Aldobrandini Madonna is a painting from about 1509-1510 oil by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. The picture is of the Virgin Mother, Christ child and infant John the Baptist, one of many paintings by Raphael with this trio. It is from early in his third, or Roman period, where distinctive changes are seen from his Umbrian or Florentine period in style, use of colour, and introduction of more natural subjects and settings. Owned for centuries by the aristocratic Roman Aldobrandini family, it has been part of the collection of the National Gallery in London since 1865. It was sold to the National Gallery in 1865 after about five decades of ownership by the Lord and Lady Garvagh, and is still sometimes known as the Garvagh Madonna."},{"label":"DBpedia:Frescoes_in_the_Cartuja_de_Aula_Dei","descr":"The Frescoes in the Cartuja de Aula Dei (1774) are a cycle of frescoes or mural paintings on the Life of the Virgin by Francisco de Goya, realised in secco (i.e. , painted in oils directly onto the wall surface), in the church of the Charterhouse of Aula Dei (Spanish: Cartuja de Aula Dei) near Pe\u00f1aflor de G\u00e1llego on the outskirts of Zaragoza, Aragon, Spain."},{"label":"DBpedia:Madonna_of_the_Pomegranate","descr":"The Madonna of the Pomegranate is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Sandro Botticelli, circa 1487. It is housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence, Italy. Several copies of the work exist, currently held at the Berlin State Museums, the Wernher Collection in London and the Aynard Collection at Lyon."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_kill_of_deer_(Courbet)","descr":"The kill of deer (L'Hallali au cerf in French), is a very large picture (355 by 505\u00a0cm), representing a hunting scene, painted in 1867 by Gustave Courbet. The picture is stored in the Museum of Fine Arts of Besan\u00e7on."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Last_of_England_(painting)","descr":"The Last of England is an 1855 oil-on-panel painting by Ford Madox Brown depicting two emigrants leaving England to start a new life abroad."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Last_Judgment_(Bosch_triptych_fragment)","descr":"The Last Judgment is a triptych created by Hieronymus Bosch. Unlike the alternate triptych with the same name, The Last Judgment, only a fragment of this one exists today. It resides at the Alte Pinakothek in Munich. After being damaged, this fragment was heavily repainted, then the paint was removed in 1936."},{"label":"DBpedia:Belisarius_Begging_for_Alms","descr":"Belisarius Begging for Alms (French: B\u00e9lisaire demandant l'aum\u00f4ne) is a large-format (288 \u00d7 312\u00a0cm) history painting in oil on canvas by Jacques-Louis David. It depicts the Byzantine general Belisarius, who heroically defeated the Vandals in North Africa in AD 533\u2013534 on behalf of Justinian I, and (according to an apocryphal account probably added to his biography in the Middle Ages) was later blinded by the emperor and reduced to begging for alms on the street. David exhibited the work at the Salon of 1781 after returning from Italy and it proved a great success. It is now on show at the Palais des Beaux-Arts in Lille."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Last_Judgment_(Fra_Angelico,_Florence)","descr":"The Last Judgment is a painting by the Renaissance artist Fra Angelico. It was commissioned by the Camaldolese Order for the newly elected abbot, the humanist scholar Ambrogio Traversari. It is variously dated to c1425, 1425-1430 and 1431. It was originally sited in the church of Santa Maria degli Angeli and now is in the museum of San Marco, Florence. It is not to be confused with another Fra Angelico Last Judgement in the Gem\u00e4ldegalerie, Berlin."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Chess_Players","descr":"The Chess Players is a genre painting of 1876 by American artist Thomas Eakins (1844\u20131916). It is a small oil on wood panel depicting Eakins' father Benjamin observing a chess match. The two players are Bertrand Gardel (at left), an elderly French teacher, and the somewhat younger George Holmes, a painter. The men are in a dark, wood-panelled Victorian parlour with a quality of light suggesting late afternoon. The game is well in progress, as many pieces have been removed from the board. Holmes, the younger player, seems to be winning the match, as he has taken the queen of his opponent (the top of which pokes out of the table's drawer), and his own black queen is well-positioned in the centre of the board. Eakins painted The Chess Players for his father, and signed the painting in Latin, \"BENJAMINI. EAKINS. FILIUS. PINXIT. '76\"\u2014\"the son of Benjamin Eakins painted this\"\u2014in small letters on the drawer of the table. Author Martin Berger has analyzed the content of the painting in detail, finding it an evocation of the passage of time and ascribing it a highly personal meaning in Eakins' life. The younger chess player's attempt to kill the older player's king is analogous to the Oedipal complex. In the way that his father Benjamin is placed in opposition to Eakins the painter, the two may be envisioned as playing out a psychological \"conflict\" across the other axis of the chess board. In this light it is not coincidental that the painting was made on wood panel rather than canvas. While Eakins has humbled himself before his father in signing the painting only by reference to being Benjamin's son, he also presents his father ambivalently. Elevating his father's status, he places Benjamin centrally, with the vanishing point behind Benjamin's head. Yet Eakins has obscured his father's face by shadow and by the angle at which he looks down upon the game. Although the painting was dedicated to Benjamin, the title \"The Chess Players\" curiously leaves Eakins' father out of the narrative of the picture."},{"label":"DBpedia:Bedroom_in_Arles","descr":"Bedroom in Arles (French: La Chambre \u00e0 Arles; Dutch: Slaapkamer te Arles) is the title given to each of three similar paintings by 19th-century Dutch Post-Impressionist painter Vincent van Gogh. Van Gogh's own title for this composition was simply The Bedroom . There are three authentic versions described in his letters, easily discernible from one another by the pictures on the wall to the right. The painting depicts Van Gogh's bedroom at 2, Place Lamartine in Arles, Bouches-du-Rh\u00f4ne, France, known as his Yellow House. The door to the right was opening to the upper floor and the staircase, the door to the left served the guest room he held prepared for Gauguin. The window in the front wall was looking to Place Lamartine and its public gardens. This room was not rectangular, but trapezoid, with an obtuse angle in the left hand corner of the front wall and an acute angle at the right. Van Gogh evidently did not spend much time on this problem, he simply indicated that there was a corner, somehow."},{"label":"DBpedia:Figure_with_Meat","descr":"Figure with Meat is a 1954 painting by the Irish born artist Francis Bacon. The figure is based on the Pope Innocent X portrait by Diego Vel\u00e1zquez; however, in the Bacon painting the Pope is shown as a gruesome figure and placed between two bisected halves of a cow. The carcass hanging in the background is likely derived from Rembrandt's Carcass of Beef, 1657. The painting is in the permanent collection of the Art Institute of Chicago. According to Mary Louise Schumacher of the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, \"Bacon appropriated the famous portrait, with its subject, enthroned and draped in satins and lace, his stare stern and full of authority. In Bacon's version, animal carcasses hang at the pope's back, creating a raw and disturbing Crucifixion-like composition. The pope's hands, elegant and poised in Vel\u00e1zquez's version, are rough hewn and gripping the church's seat of authority in apparent terror. His mouth is held in a scream and black striations drip down from the pope's nose to his neck. It's as if Bacon picked up a wide house painting brush and brutishly dragged it over the face. The fresh meat recalls the lavish arrangements of fruits, meats and confections in 17th-century vanitas paintings, which usually carried subtle moralizing messages about the impermanence of life and the spiritual dangers of sensual pleasures. Sometimes, the food itself showed signs of being overripe or spoiled, to make the point. Bacon weds the imagery of salvation, worldly decadence, power and carnal sensuality, and he contrasts those things with his own far more palpable and existential view of damnation\". The painting is featured in Tim Burton's Batman (1989 film) in a scene where the Joker and his henchmen destroy several works of art. However, the Joker spares Figure with Meat, saying, \"I kind of like this one, Bob. Leave it.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Jacob_Blessing_the_Sons_of_Joseph","descr":"Jacob Blessing the Sons of Joseph is a 1656 oil painting by Dutch artist Rembrandt van Rijn. It is said to have almost \u201ca sculptural surface with a translucent glaze over paint\u201d. This piece is housed in the Museumslandschaft Hessen Kassel in Kassel, Germany."},{"label":"DBpedia:Nasturtiums_(E._Phillips_Fox)","descr":"Nasturtiums is an oil painting by the Australian Impressionist painter Emanuel Phillips Fox painted in 1912 during a period of great creativity for the artist in which he produced some of his finest works. It shows a woman wearing a printed mauve dress, black hat and black gloves, reading in a garden seated in a cane chair against a background of climbing nasturtium leaves and flowers growing up a trellis. After being owned by the model's family, the Boyds, since its creation, it was purchased in 2011 at auction by the Society of the Art Gallery of New South Wales as a memorial to Margaret Olley, a Sydney painter and longtime patron of the gallery who had died a few months earlier. The then Director Edmund Capon said that \"Olley would have loved this painting as Phillips Fox was one of her favourite artists\". and the Curator of Australian Art said its \"combination of the poetic and the pragmatic, the decorative and the real\", reflected Margaret Olley\u2019s own aesthetic preoccupations\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Red_Vineyard","descr":"The Red Vineyards near Arles is an oil painting by the Dutch painter Vincent van Gogh, executed on a privately primed Toile de 30 piece of burlap in early November 1888. It supposedly is the only piece sold by the artist while he was alive."},{"label":"DBpedia:Lady_Standing_at_a_Virginal","descr":"Lady Standing at a Virginal is a genre painting created by Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer in about 1670-1672 and now in the National Gallery, London. The oil painting depicts a richly dressed woman playing a virginal in a home with a tiled floor, paintings on the wall and some of the locally manufactured Delftware blue and white tiles of a type that appear in other Vermeer works. The identities of the paintings on the wall are not certain, according to the National Gallery, but the landscape on the left may be by either Jan Wijnants or Allart van Everdingen. The second painting, showing Cupid holding a card, is attributed to Caesar van Everdingen, Allart's brother. This motif originated in a contemporary emblem and may either represent the idea of faithfulness to a single lover or perhaps, reflecting the presence of the virginal, the traditional association of music and love. The painting has been dated on stylistic grounds and on the evidence of the costume. This work can be related to another Vermeer in the collection, Lady Seated at a Virginal, on a canvas of almost exactly the same size, with which it may form a pair."},{"label":"DBpedia:Suprematist_Composition","descr":"Suprematist Composition (blue rectangle over the red beam) is a painting by Kazimir Malevich, a Russian painter known as a pioneer of geometric abstract art. The painting represents a constellation of geometry and color in space with remarkable austerity. Malevich's masterpiece was sold at a Sotheby's auction for $60 million to an anonymous buyer; it is the most expensive work in the history of Russian art. The painting was created in 1916 and stayed with the artist until June 1927. Malevich exhibited his work in the Grosse Berliner Kunstausstellung in Berlin, but was soon to leave for the USSR. The painting soon went to German architect Hugo Hering, who then sold it to the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam. It stayed there for the next 50 years. It has been shown at various expositions, mostly in Europe. After an extended legal battle over the painting's ownership, which endured for 17 years, the painting was returned to heirs of the artist. In November 2008 they sold it at auction."},{"label":"DBpedia:Hotel_Lobby","descr":"Hotel Lobby is an oil painting on canvas by American realist painter Edward Hopper, which is held in the collection of the Indianapolis Museum of Art (IMA), in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States."},{"label":"DBpedia:Last_Supper_(Tintoretto)","descr":"The Last Supper (1592-1594) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Jacopo Tintoretto. It is housed in the Basilica di San Giorgio Maggiore in Venice, northern Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Funeral_(Grosz)","descr":"The Funeral (often The Funeral) is a painting by the German Expressionist artist George Grosz, completed between 1917 and 1918. The work combines elements of Futurism and Cubism to show a funeral procession in a modern urban city, as an infernal abyss populated by twisted and grotesque attendants. The painting is dedicated to the German psychiatrist and avant-garde writer Oskar Panizza, noted for his play Liebeskonzil, which draws on the first historically documented outbreak of syphilis and depicts God the Father as a senile old man. Although his works were deemed blasphemous by both the Church and government of Emperor Wilhelm II, they were later admired by the Grosz's idealistic generation . The painting seeks to emulate medieval depictions hellscapes, mainly through dramatic colourisation\u2014in particular through its use of red light\u2014and as well as through the depictions of multitudes of layered distorted bodies and limbs, echoing the work of Brugel in the 11th century. A skeleton representing the Grim Reaper sits on the coffin, drinking from a bottle. A mob of mourners gathered around him are presented as ugly, frenzied and as if ridden with alcoholism and late-stage syphilis . Tall claustrophobic buildings are lined above the procession. They seem to heave and bend backwards and forwards, as if about to topple over and collaspe onto those cluddered below. Among these buildings is a lone small church, surrounded by bars, nightclubs and offices. Giving a literal voice to the \"Dance of Death\" depicted by the artist, a sign over one club reads \"DANCE TONIGHT\". Explaining his intention when creating the work, Grosz said, \"In a strange street by night, a hellish procession of dehumanized figures mills, their faces reflecting alcohol, syphilis, plague ... I painted this protest against a humanity that had gone insane.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:A_Vision_of_Fiammetta","descr":"A Vision of Fiammetta is an oil painting in the Pre-Raphaelite which was created by Dante Gabriel Rossetti in 1878. The painting was one half of one of Rossetti's \"double works\", accompanying his Ballads and Sonnets (1881). Maria Spartali Stillman modelled for the painting. The subject of painting is Boccacio's muse named Fiammetta."},{"label":"DBpedia:Girl_Reading_a_Letter_at_an_Open_Window","descr":"Girl Reading a Letter at an Open Window is an oil painting by Dutch Baroque painter Johannes Vermeer. Completed in approximately 1657\u20131659, the well-preserved painting is on display at the Gem\u00e4ldegalerie in Dresden. For many years, the attribution of the painting\u2014which features a young Dutch woman reading a letter before an open window\u2014was lost, with first Rembrandt and then Peter de Hooch being credited for the work before it was properly identified in 1880. After World War II, the painting was briefly in possession of the Soviet Union."},{"label":"DBpedia:Stuppach_Madonna","descr":"The Stuppach Madonna is a 1514 - 1519 painting of the Madonna and Child by the German Renaissance painter Matthias Gr\u00fcnewald. It is located today in the Parish Church of the Coronation of the Virgin (Pfarrkirche Mari\u00e4 Kr\u00f6nung) in Stuppach. Along with the Isenheim Altarpiece, it is considered one of Gr\u00fcnewald's main works."},{"label":"DBpedia:A_Wind-Beaten_Tree","descr":"A Wind-Beaten Tree is an oil painting created in 1883 by Vincent van Gogh."},{"label":"DBpedia:Beach_in_Pourville","descr":"Beach in Pourville is a painting by French artist Claude Monet. It was painted in 1882, one of a series of oil-on-canvas works made by Monet that year in the small seaside resort of Pourville-sur-Mer, near Dieppe in northern France. Monet is considered one of the most important members of the group of painters identified as the Impressionists. The painting was bought by the National Museum, Pozna\u0144, Poland in 1906 and exhibited in the display of their collection."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_the_Count-Duke_of_Olivares_(Hermitage)","descr":"The Portrait of Count-Duke de Olivares is a painting by Spanish artist Diego Vel\u00e1zquez, finished in 1635. It is housed in the Hermitage Museum of St. Petersburg. The picture portrays Gaspar de Guzm\u00e1n, Count-Duke of Olivares, Prime Minister of Spain during the reign of Philip IV. He is portrayed in half bust over a neuter background, the face appearing tired and swollen, markedly aged from the previous, more famous equestrian portrait of Duke de Olivares also by Vel\u00e1zquez. Olivares wears a simple black dress with a white ruff."},{"label":"DBpedia:Christ_Blessing_(Raphael)","descr":"Christ Blessing is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. The features of Christ bear some resemblance to Raphael's."},{"label":"DBpedia:Montini_Altarpiece","descr":"The Montini Altarpiece is an oil on canvas painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Cima da Conegliano, dating from around 1506-1507 and housed in the Galleria Nazionale of Parma, Italy. The work adopts the same scheme of several altarpieces by Giovanni Bellini, such as the San Giobbe Altarpiece. It was originally executed for the Parma Cathedral. It shows the Virgin Mary on a high throne in a mosaic-decorated apse, while placing her hand on the heads of kneeling \u202aSaints Cosmas and Damian\u202c \u202a . St. John the Baptist is portrayed on the right. On the right, the Child is blessing two female saints (perhaps St. Catherine of Alexandria and Mary Magdalene) and St. John the Evangelist. Typical of Bellini works in the musician angel at the feet of the throne, in the centre foreground."},{"label":"DBpedia:Mountain_Landscape_with_Rainbow","descr":"Mountain Landscape with Rainbow (1809-10) (German: Gebirgslandschaft mit Regenbogen), is an oil painting by the German Romantic artist Caspar David Friedrich. Like the Riesengebirge Landscape (1810) this painting was inspired by Friedrich's 1809 travels through Germany and along the shores of the Baltic Sea. The observation of nature in his travels allowed Friedrich to compose a universal, idyllic landscape that is visionary rather than literal. In the foreground a wayfarer has stopped to rest. He turns his gaze to the background, where a black abyss opens up. In those depths a few mountains can be glimpsed. Above the landscape, a rainbow forms in the waning light. In Friedrich's oeuvre, paintings with a sharp contrast between the foreground and background are common, a separation symbolizing the spiritual and physical planes of existence. So it is in this painting: in the foreground the sun illuminates the foliage and the clothes of the traveller, and in contrast the darkness of night fills the rest of the image. The opposites of day and night, and of spirit and matter, are unified by a rainbow, which in the Genesis account of Noah's ark symbolized the covenant between God and humanity."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Split_of_Life","descr":"The Split of Life is a series of over 80 mural size oil paintings by Nabil Kanso. The paintings span a period from 1974 to 1994, and deal with contemporary and historical issues of war and violence."},{"label":"DBpedia:Spring_Day_(painting)","descr":"Spring Day is a painting by the well-known Russian artist Nikolai Matveevich Pozdneev (1930\u20131978). It attempts to convey the mood of Soviet society of the late 1950s to the early 1960s."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Baldassare_Castiglione","descr":"Portrait of Baldassare Castiglione is a c. 1514\u20131515 oil painting attributed to the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. Considered one of the great portraits of the Renaissance, it has an enduring influence. It depicts Raphael's friend, the diplomat and humanist Baldassare Castiglione, who is considered a quintessential example of the High Renaissance gentleman. The portrait was produced as a result of Raphael's friendship with Castiglione, whose ascent in courtly circles paralleled that of the artist. They were close friends by 1504, when Castiglione made his second visit to Urbino, as Raphael was gaining recognition as an artist in the humanist circle of the city's ducal court. Raphael was commissioned by Guidobaldo da Montefeltro in 1505 to paint a picture for Henry VII; Castiglione traveled to England to present the finished painting to the king. It is possible that Castiglione later served as a \"scholarly advisor\" for Raphael's The School of Athens, and that the depiction of Zoroaster in that fresco may be a portrait of the courtier. Portrait of Baldassare Castiglione may have had a practical and intimate purpose. Castiglione left his family behind when he went to Rome, and he wrote a poem in which he imagined his wife and son consoling themselves with the picture during his absence. The composition is pyramidal. It was originally painted on a wood panel, and later transferred to canvas. Copies produced in the 17th century show Castiglione's hands in full, suggesting that the picture was subsequently cut by several inches at the bottom. Castiglione is seated against an earth-toned background and wears a dark doublet with a trim of squirrel fur and black ribbon; on his head is a turban topped by a notched beret. The attire indicates that this was painted during the winter, likely that of 1514\u20131515, when Castiglione was in Rome by appointment of Guidobaldo da Montefeltro to Pope Leo X. The lightest areas are the subject's face seen nearly head-on, a billow of white shirt front at his chest, and his folded hands, which are mostly cropped at the bottom edge of the canvas. Castiglione is seen as vulnerable, possessing a humane sensitivity characteristic of Raphael's later portraits. The soft contours of his clothing and rounded beard express the subtlety of the subject's personality. In his The Book of the Courtier Castiglione argued on behalf of the cultivation of fine manners and dress. He popularized the term sprezzatura, which translates roughly to \"nonchalant mastery\", an ideal of effortless grace befitting a man of culture. The concept eventually found its way into English literature, in the plays of Ben Jonson and William Shakespeare. The picture's elegance of execution is consistent with the attitude of the subject. Art historian Lawrence Gowing noted the counter-intuitive handling of gray velvet as contrary to an academic modeling of form, with the broad surfaces banked in rich darkness and the fabric shining most brightly as it turns away from the light. For Gowing, \"The picture has the subtlety of baroque observation but the stillness and noble contour of classic painting at its peak. \" The portrait's composition and atmospheric quality suggest an homage to the Mona Lisa, which Raphael would have seen in Rome. Yet the Castiglione portrait transcends questions of influence; art historian James Beck wrote that \"The Portrait of Baldassare Castiglione stands as a final solution for single male portraiture within the Renaissance style.... \" Notwithstanding shifts in the critical appraisal of Raphael's work, the painting has enjoyed consistent admiration from other artists. Titian was strongly influenced by this portrait, and may have first viewed it in Castiglione's home in Mantua. The Venetian master's Portrait of a Man (Tommaso Mosti?) is generally seen as owing a strong compositional debt to Raphael's painting, and also reflects Castiglione's influential advice regarding the restrained elegance of attire recommended for courtiers. In 1639 Rembrandt drew a sketch of the painting while it was being auctioned in Amsterdam, and subsequently referenced the composition in several self-portraits. A copy of the painting, now in the Courtauld Institute of Art, was painted by Peter Paul Rubens. Both Rembrandt's and Rubens's versions display Baroque flourish, quite different from the original painting's sober restraint. In the 19th century Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres chose a frame for his Portrait of Monsieur Bertin much like that which adorned Raphael's painting, perhaps indicating Ingres's ambitions, while also underscoring the paintings' similarities of coloration and extraordinary illusionism. At the turn of the 20th century Henri Matisse copied the painting, and Paul C\u00e9zanne exclaimed of Raphael's portrait: \"How well rounded the forehead is, with all the distinct planes. How well balanced the patches in the unity of the whole.... \" Now in the Louvre, the painting was acquired by Louis XIV in 1661 from the heirs of Cardinal Mazarin."},{"label":"DBpedia:Resurrection_of_Christ_(Raphael)","descr":"The Resurrection of Christ (1499\u20131502), also called The Kinnaird Resurrection (after a former owner of the painting, Lord Kinnaird), is an oil painting on wood by the Italian High Renaissance master Raphael. The work is one the earliest known paintings by the artist, executed between 1499 and 1502. It is probably a piece of an unknown predella, though it has been suggested that the painting could be one of the remaining works of the Baronci altarpiece, Raphael's first recorded commission (seriously damaged by an earthquake in 1789, fragments of which are today found in museums across Europe). The painting is presently housed in the S\u00e3o Paulo Museum of Art. The Kinnaird Resurrection is one of the first preserved works of Raphael in which his natural dramatic style of composition was already obvious, as opposed to the gentle poetic style of his master, Pietro Perugino. The extremely rational composition is ruled by a complex ideal geometry which interlinks all the elements of the scene and gives it a strange animated rhythm, transforming the characters in the painting into co-protagonists in a unique \"choreography\". The painting possesses an esthetic influence from Pinturicchio and Melozzo da Forl\u00ec, though the spatial orchestration of the work, with its tendency to movement, shows Raphael's knowledge of the Florentine artistic milieu of the 16th century. The work was acquired by the S\u00e3o Paulo Museum of Art in 1954. Pietro Maria Bardi, former director of the museum, took the responsibility of adding the Kinnaird Resurrection to the body of works of Raphael, based on the existence of two preparatory studies for the composition, starting a heated debate about its authorship. Nowadays, the reference to Raphael is almost unanimously accepted by experts. It is the only conserved work of that artist in the Southern Hemisphere."},{"label":"DBpedia:Drawbridge_in_Nieuw-Amsterdam","descr":"Drawbridge in Nieuw-Amsterdam is a watercolor created in November, 1883 by Vincent van Gogh in Drente, The Netherlands."},{"label":"DBpedia:Netherlandish_Proverbs","descr":"Netherlandish Proverbs (also called Flemish Proverbs, The Blue Cloak or The Topsy Turvy World) is a 1559 oil-on-oak-panel painting by Pieter Bruegel the Elder which depicts a land populated with literal renditions of Dutch\/Flemish proverbs of the day. The picture is overflowing with references and most of the representations can still be identified; while many of the proverbs have either been forgotten or never made the transition to the English language, some are still in use. Proverbs were popular during Bruegel's time: a number of collections were published including a famous work by Erasmus. Frans Hogenberg had produced an engraving illustrating about 40 proverbs in around 1558 and Bruegel himself had painted a collection of Twelve Proverbs on individual panels by 1558 and had also produced Big Fish Eat Little Fish in 1556, but Netherlandish Proverbs is thought to be the first large scale painting on the theme. Rabelais depicted a land of proverbs in his novel Pantagruel soon after in 1564. Bruegel's paintings have themes of the absurdity, wickedness and foolishness of mankind, and this painting is no exception. The picture was originally entitled The Blue Cloak or The Folly of the World which indicates he was not intending to produce a mere collection of proverbs but rather a study of human stupidity. Many of the people depicted show the characteristic blank features which Bruegel used to portray fools. His son, Pieter Brueghel the Younger, specialised in making copies of his father's work, and painted up to twenty copies of Netherlandish Proverbs. Not all versions of the painting, by father or son, show exactly the same proverbs, also differing in other details."},{"label":"DBpedia:Madonna_of_Palazzo_Medici-Riccardi","descr":"The Madonna of Palazzo Medici-Riccardi is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Filippo Lippi. It is housed in the Palazzo Medici-Riccardi of Florence, central Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:Forest_(painting)","descr":"Forest is a painting by French painter Paul C\u00e9zanne. An oil on canvas, it represents a wooded area close to Aix-en-Provence. It is currently in the collection of the National Gallery of Canada."},{"label":"DBpedia:Metamorphosis_of_Narcissus","descr":"Metamorphosis of Narcissus (1937) is an oil-on-canvas painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dal\u00ed. This painting is from Dal\u00ed's Paranoiac-critical period. According to Greek mythology, Narcissus fell in love with his own reflection in a pool. Unable to embrace the watery image, he pined away, and the gods immortalized him as a flower. Dali completed this painting in 1937 on his long awaited return to Paris after having had great success in the United States. The painting shows Narcissus sitting in a pool, gazing down. Not far away there is a decaying stone figure which corresponds closely to him but is perceived quite differently; as a hand holding up a bulb or egg from which a Narcissus is growing. The egg has been used as a symbol for sexuality in other paintings by Dali. In the background, a group of naked figures can be seen, while a third Narcissus like figure appears on the horizon. A poem was written by Dal\u00ed to accompany the painting."},{"label":"DBpedia:Trophy,_Hypertrophied","descr":"Trophy, Hypertrophied (1919) is a work of art by the German dadaist\/surrealist Max Ernst. This is one of Ernst\u2019s earliest known works. It was created through a photomechanical process called line-block printing, rarely used in printmaking, to which drawing was added. It depicts a complex mechanical apparatus with celestial shapes as gears. Ernst created a similar piece the same year titled Farewell My Beautiful Land of Mary Laurencen. Help! Help!"},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Menaced_Assassin","descr":"The Menaced Assassin is a 1927 oil on canvas painting by Belgian surrealist artist Ren\u00e9 Magritte. The main subject of the painting, a blood-smeared nude woman, is seen lying on a couch. The assassin of the painting's title, a well-dressed man, stands ready to leave, his coat and hat on a chair next to his bag. He is however delayed by the sound of music, and in an unhurriedly relaxed manner, listens to a gramophone. In the meantime, two men armed with club and net wait in the foyer to ensnare him, whilst three more men also watch from over the balcony."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Emilia_Pia_da_Montefeltro","descr":"The Portrait of Emilia Pia da Montefeltro is a picture from around 1504-1505, attributed to the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael and housed by the Baltimore Museum of Art, United States"},{"label":"DBpedia:Beasts_of_the_Sea","descr":"Beasts of the Sea is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1950. It is a paper collage on canvas. It is currently in the collection of the National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC.. During the early-to-mid-1940s Matisse was in poor health. Eventually by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. Beasts of the Sea, is an example of Matisse's final body of works known as the cutouts."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Baptism_of_Christ_(Piero_della_Francesca)","descr":"The Baptism of Christ is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Piero della Francesca, finished around 1448-1450. It is housed in the National Gallery, London. The panel was commissioned presumably some time about 1440 by the Camaldolese Monastery of Sansepolcro in Tuscany, originally part of a triptych. Its dating to Piero della Francesca's early career is evidenced by the strong relationship with the \"light painting\" of his master, Domenico Veneziano. It portrays Christ being baptised by John, his head surmounted by a dove representing the Holy Spirit. Christ, John's hand, the bird and the bowl form an axis which divides the painting in two symmetrical parts. A second division is created by the tree on the left, which instead divides it according to the golden ratio. The three angels on the left wear different clothes and, in a break from traditional iconography, are not supporting Christ's garments, but are holding each other's hands, in a sort of way. This could be an allusion to the contemporary Council of Florence (1431-45), whose goal was the unification of the Western and Eastern Churches. The Camaldolese monk and theologian, St. Ambrose Traversari (+1439), who had been Prior General of the Camaladolese congregation, had been a strong supporter of the union. Such symbolism is also suggested by the presence, behind the neophyte on the right, of figures dressed in an oriental fashion. Piero della Francesca was renowned in his times as an authority on perspective and geometry: his attention to the theme is shown by John's arm and leg, which form two angles of the same size."},{"label":"DBpedia:Dreamvision_(paintings)","descr":"Dreamvision (paintings) is a series of 28 oil paintings made by Nabil Kanso in 1980-81. The subjects of the works in the series are two figures of a man and woman whose characters and relations are reinforced by figurative allusions to their surroundings."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Anatomy_Lesson_of_Dr._Nicolaes_Tulp","descr":"The Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes Tulp is a 1632 oil painting by Rembrandt housed in the Mauritshuis museum in The Hague, the Netherlands. Dr. Nicolaes Tulp is pictured explaining the musculature of the arm to medical professionals. Some of the spectators are various doctors who paid commissions to be included in the painting. The painting is signed in the top-left hand corner Rembrant. f[ecit ecit] 1632. This may be the first instance of Rembrandt signing a painting with his forename (in its original form) as opposed to the monogramme RHL (Rembrant Harmenszoon of Leiden), and is thus a sign of his growing artistic confidence. The event can be dated to 16 January 1632: the Amsterdam Guild of Surgeons, of which Tulp was official City Anatomist, permitted only one public dissection a year, and the body would have to be that of an executed criminal. Anatomy lessons were a social event in the 17th century, taking place in lecture rooms that were actual theatres, with students, colleagues and the general public being permitted to attend on payment of an entrance fee. The spectators are appropriately dressed for a solemn social occasion. It is thought that, with the exception of the figures to the rear and left, these people were added to the picture later. One person is missing: the Preparator, whose task it was to prepare the body for the lesson. In the 17th century an important scientist such as Dr. Tulp would not be involved in menial and bloody work like dissection, and such tasks would be left to others. It is for this reason that the picture shows no cutting instruments. Instead we see in the lower right corner an enormous open textbook on anatomy, possibly the 1543 De humani corporis fabrica (Fabric of the Human Body) by Andreas Vesalius. Medical specialists have commented on the accuracy of muscles and tendons painted by the 26-year-old Rembrandt. It is not known where he obtained such knowledge; it is possible that he copied the details from an anatomical textbook. However, in 2006 Dutch researchers recreated the scene with a male cadaver, revealing several discrepancies of the exposed left forearm compared to that of a real corpse. The surgically astute will notice that the origin of the exposed forearm muscles would seem to indicate that the flexor compartment originates at the lateral epicondyle, when it is, in fact, the medial epicondyle. It is the common extensor origin that originates at the lateral epicondyle."},{"label":"DBpedia:%CA%BBahu%CA%BBula","descr":"Hawaiian feather cloaks, known as \u02bbahu \u02bbula in the Hawaiian language, were worn with feather helmets. These were symbols of the highest rank reserved for the men of the ali\u02bbi, the chiefly class of Hawaii. There are over 160 examples of this traditional clothing in museums around the world. At least six of these cloaks were collected during the voyages of Captain Cook. These cloaks are made from a woven netting decorated with bird feathers and are examples of fine featherwork techniques. One of these cloaks was included in a painting of Cook's death by Johann Zoffany."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Harvest_Wagon","descr":"The Harvest Wagon is the name for two paintings done by English artist Thomas Gainsborough. The first was done around 1767 and is today owned by the Barber Institute of Fine Arts, in Birmingham, England. The later painting was done around 1784 and is part of the collection of the Art Gallery of Ontario. The later painting is the better known of the two. It was donated to the Art Gallery of Ontario by Frank P Wood. It is one of the most prominent pieces in the collection of the AGO. Both paintings depict a group of peasants riding inside a simple wagon through a rural landscape with a collection of nearby animals. A young boy leads the wagon, while a man helps lift a young woman aboard. The painting is set in the area around Gainsborough's adopted city of Bath, where he lived for 14 years of his life. In 1995 the two museums collaborated on a joint show that displayed the two versions side by side, first on display in England and then in Canada. The two paintings of a similar subject done some seventeen years apart show the evolution of Gainsborough as an artist. The later painting is more sedate, the figures more composed and less excited. Gainsborough scholar Hugh Besley sees landscape, people, and animals being more unified in the later work. He also sees more influence of Reubens on Gainsborough's style and technique. Reubens The Descent from the Cross being an especially important influence. The woman being pulled up is ascending to the wagon, in a motion opposite to Christ's. Christina Payne has observed some of the symbolism in the 1784 work, noting that the broken pitcher placed in front of the pregnant passenger may be linked to a pitcher then being a symbol of virginity. The later painting is also far more intimate to the artist as the women in the wagon are portrait's of Gainsborough's own daughters, Mary and Margaret. The first work could not find a buyer, perhaps being too ribald for the art market of the time. It was thus given to Gainsborough's friend Wiltshire, a mover who transported Gainsborough's paintings from Bath to exhibitions in London. Wiltshire's horses had also served as the model of the animals in the picture. The painting remained in Wiltshire's family until his grandson sold it in 1867. The second painting, done at the height of Gainsborough's fame, was sold to the Prince of Wales, later to become King George IV. It later became part of the collection of American steel magnate Elbert Henry Gary. Upon Gary's death in 1927 his collection was auctioned off, and The Harvest Wagon was one of the most sought after works. After a competitive auction it was purchased by art dealer Joseph Duveen for $360,000, then the highest price ever paid at auction for a painting in the United States. Duveen later sold it to Canadian art collector Frank P. Wood for $450,000, and Wood then donated it to the Art Gallery of Ontario. In 1959 the painting was somewhat damaged during an attempted robbery when the thieves tried to cut the painting out of its frame."},{"label":"DBpedia:Madonna_of_Laroque","descr":"Madonna of Laroque is an oil painting on a poplar board (48\u00a0cm \/ 59\u00a0cm) created between 1502-1503. It represents the Child and his mother next to John the Baptist. This painting could be by Leonardo da Vinci."},{"label":"DBpedia:Isabella_(Millais_painting)","descr":"Isabella (1849), also known as Lorenzo and Isabella, is a painting by John Everett Millais, which was his first work in the Pre-Raphaelite style, created shortly after the formation of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood in the previous year. It was first exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1849, and is now in the collection of the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool."},{"label":"DBpedia:Great_Piece_of_Turf","descr":"The Great Piece of Turf (German: Das gro\u00dfe Rasenst\u00fcck) is a watercolor painting by Albrecht D\u00fcrer. The painting was created at D\u00fcrer's workshop in Nuremberg in 1503. It is a study of a seemingly random group of wild plants, including dandelion and greater plantain. The work is considered one of the masterpieces of D\u00fcrer's realistic nature studies."},{"label":"DBpedia:Pont_Boieldieu_in_Rouen,_Rainy_Weather","descr":"Pont Boieldieu in Rouen, Rainy Weather is an 1896 painting by Camille Pissarro in the collection of the Art Gallery of Ontario. It is one of a series of painting Pissarro did of Pont Boieldieu and the industrial quays surrounding it. Pissarro spent time in Rouen in 1896 seeking to paint the industrial modernity of the area. He had earlier made a trip in 1883, and did one series of images of the city then. On his 1896 trip he stayed at the H\u00f4tel de Paris in Rouen, from January to April 1896, and it is in this period that this painting was made. His room overlooked the Seine, and it is from this vantage point that it is painted. The subject is the Pont Boieldieu, an iron bridge completed a few years before in 1885. Across the river is the Gare d'Orl\u00e9ans train station and the Place Carnot square. The painting shows Pissarro's interest in moving beyond traditional landscape paintings of verdant rural scenes. His Rouen series instead focuses on the bustle of the modern city. The Rouen pictures would be followed by a series of paintings of urban Paris. Style-wise, Pont Boieldieu in Rouen, Rainy Weather is a return to Impressionism after a decade of experimenting with Post-Impressionism and Pointalism. Pissarro deliberately sought out a view of the busy industrial section of the town, and produced a number of paintings of the view from the hotel in different light conditions and different weather. He did another picture of the Pont Boieldieu from the same angle, but in a foggy sunset that is today at the Mus\u00e9e des Beaux-Arts de Rouen. In a letter written that year, Pissarro himself describes the painting: \"The theme is the bridge near the Placede la Bourse with the effects of rain, crowds of people coming and going, smoke from the boats, quays with cranes, workers in the foreground, and all this in grey colors glistening in the rain. \" He further wrote, \"what particularly interests me is the motif off the iron bridge in wet weather with all the vehicles, pedestrians, workers on the embankment, boats, smoke, haze in the distance; it's so spirited, so alive. The painting was donated to the Art Gallery of Ontario by Reuben Wells Leonard upon his death in 1937. It is one of six Pissarros on public display in Canada, with two others at the AGO, and the others being at the National Gallery of Canada, Art Gallery of Hamilton and the Art Gallery of Greater Victoria."},{"label":"DBpedia:Les_toits_de_Collioure","descr":"Les toits de Collioure is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1905. It is an example of the style that Matisse employed during his early period of Fauvism. The painting is in the collection of The Hermitage, St. Petersburg, Russia."},{"label":"DBpedia:Oceans_of_Wisdom","descr":"Chie no umi (\"Oceans of Wisdom\", also known as \"A Thousand Views of the Sea and Waterside\") is a chuban yoko-e (19 x 25.4 cm. ) sized woodblock print series by the Japanese artist Hokusai. Subjects of the prints include fishing, oceans and whaling. The series is one of Hokusai's rarest sets. It seems to have been issued in the mid-1830s and, like the Hyakunin Isshu (\"One Hundred Poems Explained by the Nurse\") series of the same date, publication of the prints ceased abruptly. Ten prints comprise the complete set, although a number of preparatory drawings are extant for prints that were never made."},{"label":"DBpedia:A_Girl_with_a_Watering_Can","descr":"A Girl with a Watering Can is an Impressionist painting by Pierre-Auguste Renoir from 1876. The work was apparently painted in Monet's famous garden at Argenteuil. This painting is of Mademoiselle Leclere in her blue dress."},{"label":"DBpedia:Saint_Catherine_(Caravaggio)","descr":"Saint Catherine of Alexandria (c. 1598) is an oil painting by the Italian Baroque master Caravaggio. It is part of the Thyssen-Bornemisza Collection of Madrid. Saint Catherine of Alexandria was a popular figure in Catholic iconography. She was of noble origins, and dedicated herself as a Christian after having a vision. At the age of 18 she confronted the Roman Emperor Maximus (presumably this refers to Galerius Maximianus), debated his pagan philosophers, and succeeded in converting many of them to Christianity. Imprisoned by the emperor, she converted his empress and the leader of his armies. Maximus executed her converts (including the empress) and ordered that Catherine herself be put to death on a spiked wheel. The wheel reportedly shattered the moment Catherine touched it. Maximus then had her beheaded. She became patron saint of libraries and librarians, as well as teachers, archivists, and all those associated with wisdom and teaching, and all those whose livelihoods depended upon wheels. The year of her martyrdom was traditionally held to have been 305, (the year of a major persecution of Christians under Galerius), and her feastday was celebrated on 25 November. In 1969 the Church, persuaded by the overwhelming opinion of historians that Catherine had probably never existed, removed her from the calendar of saints; by 2002, while the historians had not changed their minds, the Church had, and she was reinstated. Her qualities are supposed to be those of beauty, fearlessness, virginity, and intelligence."},{"label":"DBpedia:Man_at_the_Crossroads","descr":"Man at the Crossroads was a mural by Diego Rivera. The Rockefellers wanted to have a mural put on the ground-floor wall of Rockefeller Center. Nelson Rockefeller wanted Henri Matisse or Pablo Picasso to do it because he favored their modern style, but neither was available. Diego Rivera was one of Nelson Rockefeller's mother's favorite artists and therefore was commissioned to create the huge mural. He was given a theme: \"Man at the Crossroads Looking with Hope and High Vision to the Choosing of a New and Better Future. \" Rockefeller wanted the painting to make people pause and think. The huge mural had many parts including: society women drinking alcohol, pictures of cells, as well as the famous Lenin portion (depicted at a May day parade) which upset Rockefeller. Rivera was asked to remove the picture of Lenin, but refused, instead offering to add Abraham Lincoln to the work as way of a compromise. Rivera was fully paid the promised amount for his work, but the mural was to remain draped after completion. People protested but it remained covered until the early weeks of 1934, when it was destroyed by workmen. An assistant, Lucienne Bloch, had taken photographs of the mural before it was destroyed. Using them as a reference, Rivera repainted the mural, though at a smaller scale, at the Palacio de Bellas Artes in Mexico City where it was renamed Man, Controller of the Universe. At Rockefeller Center in its place is a mural by Jose Maria Sert mural with Abraham Lincoln as its focal point. The Rockefeller-Rivera dispute appears in the fiction films Cradle Will Rock, Anbe Sivam and Frida."},{"label":"DBpedia:Counter-Reformation","descr":"The Counter-Reformation (also the Catholic Revival or Catholic Reformation) was the period of Catholic revival beginning with the Council of Trent (1545\u20131563) and ending at the close of the Thirty Years' War (1648), which is sometimes considered a response to the Protestant Reformation. The Counter-Reformation was a comprehensive effort composed of four major elements: Ecclesiastical or structural reconfiguration Religious orders Spiritual movements Political dimensions Such reforms included the foundation of seminaries for the proper training of priests in the spiritual life and the theological traditions of the Church, the reform of religious life by returning orders to their spiritual foundations, and new spiritual movements focusing on the devotional life and a personal relationship with Christ, including the Spanish mystics and the French school of spirituality. It also involved political activities that included the Roman Inquisition."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Doge_on_the_Bucintoro_near_the_Riva_di_Sant'Elena_(painting)","descr":"The Doge on the Bucintoro near the Riva di Sant'Elena (also known as The Departure of the Bucentaur for the Ascension Day Ceremony, and other similar titles) is an oil on canvas by Venetian painter Francesco Guardi, a member of the Venetian School. It was painted between 1766 and 1770, and is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:Prussian_Homage_(painting)","descr":"The Prussian Homage is an oil on canvas painting by Polish painter Jan Matejko painted between 1879 and 1882 in Krak\u00f3w (then part of Austria-Hungary). The painting depicts the \"Prussian Homage,\" a significant political event from the time of the Renaissance in Poland in which Albrecht Hohenzollern, the Duke of Prussia paid tribute and swore allegiance to King Sigismund I the Old in Krak\u00f3w's market square on 10 April 1525. Matejko depicted over thirty important figures of the Polish Renaissance period, taking the liberty of including several who were not actually present at the event. The painting glorifies this event in Poland's past and its culture, and the majesty of its kings. At the same time, the painting has darker undertones, reflecting the troubled times that befell Poland in the late eighteenth century, for the Kingdom of Prussia would become one of the partitioning powers that ended the independence of Poland. The painting was seen by some as anti-Prussian, foretelling its perceived betrayal of Poland; others have noted it is also critical of Poland, as Matejko included signs that signify this seemingly triumphant moment was a hollow, wasted victory. Matejko created his painting to remind others about the history of the no-longer-independent country he loved, and about the changing fates of history. The painting is counted among his masterpieces."},{"label":"DBpedia:Vision_of_a_Knight_(Raphael)","descr":"The Vision of a Knight or The Dream of Scipio or Allegory is a small egg tempera painting on poplar by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael, finished in 1504-1505. It is in the National Gallery in London. It probably formed a pair with the Three Graces panel, also 17\u00a0cm square, now in the Ch\u00e2teau de Chantilly museum. There are a number of theories as to what the panel is intended to represent. Some art historians think the sleeping knight represents the Roman general Scipio Africanus (236 - 184 BC) who dreamed that he had to choose between Virtue (behind whom is a steep and rocky path) and Pleasure (in looser robes). However, the two feminine figures are not presented as contestants. They may represent the ideal attributes of the knight: the book, sword and flower which they hold suggest the ideals of scholar, soldier and lover which a knight should combine. The most likely source for the allegory depicted is from a passage in the Punica, an epic poem recounting the Second Punic War by the Latin poet Silius Italicus. The panel was moved to England by William Young Ottley in 1800."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Street_Enters_the_House","descr":"The Street Enters the House (La Strada Entra Nella Casa) is an oil on canvas painting by Italian artist Umberto Boccioni. Painted in the Futurist style, the work centres around a woman on a balcony in front of a busy street, with the sounds of the activity below portrayed as a riot of shapes and colours. The first public display of the painting was in Paris, in 1912, as part of the first Futurist exhibition. It is now housed in the Sprengel Museum in Hanover, Germany."},{"label":"DBpedia:Landscape_Near_Figueras","descr":"Landscape Near Figueras (1910) is a painting by the Spanish artist Salvador Dal\u00ed. This is one of the earliest known works by Dal\u00ed, having been painted when he was about six years old. This work was done during Dali's first, \"Developmental Period\" which roughly lasted until 1928-1929. This period predates Surrealism and during this time he emulated and mastered existing styles of art, most notably the Baroque, Classical, Impressionistic, Cubist forms. Accordingly, the work exemplifies Dal\u00ed's early interest in impressionism. Landscape Near Figueras was painted in oil over a 14 x 9 cm postcard. The sky was painted thinly, allowing part of the design of the postcard to show through. It was part of the private collection of Mr. Albert Field in Astoria, Queens, New York but now is part of the permanent collection of the Salvador Dal\u00ed Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida."},{"label":"DBpedia:Victory_O_Lord!","descr":"Victory O Lord! (1871) is a painting by John Everett Millais depicting Moses, Aaron and Hur during the Battle of Rephidim against the Amalekites. Along with his landscape Chill October it represented a major turning point in Millais's career. The painting illustrates a passage in the Book of Exodus, chapter 17, which describes how Moses and his two companions watched the battle from the hill. Moses holds the Rod of God in his right hand. And Moses said unto Joshua, Choose us out men, and go out, fight with Amalek: tomorrow I will stand on the top of the hill with the rod of God in mine hand. So Joshua did as Moses had said to him, and fought with Amalek: and Moses, Aaron, and Hur went up to the top of the hill. And it came to pass, when Moses held up his hand, that Israel prevailed: and when he let down his hand, Amalek prevailed. But Moses hands were heavy; and they took a stone, and put it under him, and he sat thereon; and Aaron and Hur stayed up his hands, the one on the one side, and the other on the other side; and his hands were steady until the going down of the sun. And Joshua discomfited Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword. Millais depicts the \"going down of the sun\", when the three patriarchs watch the final moments of the battle. Moses is in the middle while Aaron and Hur hold up his arms to ensure victory. Aaron, in red, is on the right. The battle below is indicated by the arrow at the bottom right. Millais worked on the painting over many years, scraping and repainting the surface. F.G. Stephens commented that the painting depicted the conflict between the unyielding and steadfast willpower of Moses, and the physical and emotional exhaustion of his companions. He also praised the vivid painting of the aged flesh of the figures. The painting contrasts dramatically in style with the contemporary religious works of Millais's former companion, William Holman Hunt, such as The Shadow of Death, on which Hunt was working at the same time; however, it has been suggested that both pictures may refer to typological prefigurations of the crucifixion in scenes in which raised, outstretched arms signify both physical suffering and triumph."},{"label":"DBpedia:Madonna_del_Bordone","descr":"The Madonna del Bordone is a panel painting by the Italian painter Coppo di Marcovaldo, in the church of Santa Maria dei Servi in Siena, Italy. Signed and dated 1261, the work is the only certain attribution to the Florentine painter. It was painted after he had been taken prisoner in the Battle of Montaperti in 1260, when the Republic of Siena defeated the Republic of Florence. Coppo paid his ransom by executing the work. It portrays the Madonna enthroned with a halo and two small angels on her sides. She is enthroned, and supports the blessing Child, who is holding the Book of the Law in his left hand and has a halo surrounded by a jewelled cross. The heads were painted in the following year by a local artist, who added a sfumato style influenced by that of Duccio di Buoninsegna, but different from Coppo's art. X-Ray analyses have shown the original heads to be characterized by Coppo's typical, rather sketchy manner of painting. Unlike the concentrated abstraction of contemporary works such as those by Margaritone d'Arezzo, in Coppo's Madonna the Child is looking in a tender way at his mother, a gesture aiming to humanize his divine status, but perhaps also to represent the love of the Child for the Catholic Church, symbolized by the Madonna. The posture of the two figures is typical of Byzantine painting of the subject."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Wood_(Max_Ernst)","descr":"The Wood (1927) is a painting by the German surrealist Max Ernst. Ernst was haunted by the atmosphere of forests and by the birds which inhabit them. Here, the herring-bone effect of the trees and the grainy sky reveal his technique of grattage. Layers of paint were applied to the canvas, which was pressed against a sheet of stamped metal and a rough plank and scraped. This work was given to the Contemporary Art Society by Miss A.F. Brown in 1940. It is currently on display in the National Museum of Wales."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Order_of_Release","descr":"The Order of Release, 1746 is a painting by John Everett Millais exhibited in 1853. It is notable for the fact that it marks the beginnings of Millais's move away from the highly detailed Pre-Raphaelitism of his early years. Another notable fact is that Effie Gray, who later left her husband for the artist, modelled for the principal figure. The painting depicts the wife of a rebel Scottish soldier, who has been imprisoned after the Jacobite rising of 1745, arriving with an order securing his release. She holds her child, showing the order to a guard, while her husband embraces her. The Illustrated London News reviewed the painting as follows: It is time now that we speak of Millais \u2013 Millais the Pre-Raffaelite; the \"pretender\" Millais that was; the \"usurper\" Millais that is; the \"legitimate\" Millais that perhaps (much virtue in that little word) may be; and who has certainly a larger crowd of admirers in his little corner in the Middle Room than all the Academicians put together command; . . . Truth to say, Mr. Millais, in this \"Order of Release\" (265), has achieved for himself an \"order of merit\" worth more than any academic honour, and has earned a fame which a whole corporate academy might be proud to portion amongst its constituent members. Whilst we admit \u2013 nay assert this \u2013 we would by no means wish to be understood as enrolling ourselves incontinently of this young artist\u2019s \"party\" (for there is partisanship in everything, even in art); but simply as asserting that Pre-Raffaelitism (or rather the artists who have been foolishly styled Pre-Raffaelites) is a \"great fact,\" and perhaps may lead to the regeneration of art in this country;. . . The subject is simply that of a wife, with child in her arms, coming with an order of release for her husband, who has been taken in the Civil Wars. The husband, overcome with emotions, and weak from a recent wound (his arm is in a sling), can but fall upon her neck and weep; moan, \"firm of purpose,\" sheds no tear; she has none to shed; but her eye is red and heavy with weeping and waking; and she looks at the stern and unconcerned gaoler with a proud look, expressing that she has won the reward for all her trouble past. The colouring, the textural execution, are marvellous (for these degenerate days). The dark, generalised background is a departure from the highly detailed backgrounds of earlier works such as Ophelia, as is the emphatic chiaroscuro. However, the portrayal of tense relationships disrupted by historical dramas was a continuation of the theme of A Huguenot and The Proscribed Royalist, 1651. While working on the painting, Millais fell in love with Effie, the wife of his principal supporter, the critic John Ruskin. A study for the painting has a drawing of her head of one side and an image of a man kneeling in supplication to a woman on the other, labelled \"accepted\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Ruling_Passion","descr":"The Ruling Passion, sometimes called The Ornithologist, is a painting by John Everett Millais which was shown at the Royal Academy Exhibition in 1885. The painting shows an old man lying on a chaise-longue. He is showing a stuffed bird, a King Bird of Paradise, to a group of children and a woman. The older girl on the left of the picture is holding a Resplendent Quetzal, and other specimens are scattered about. The attitude of the children ranges from the enthralled interest of the youngest two to the comparative indifference, almost boredom, of the oldest girl. The work was inspired by a visit which Millais and his son John Guille Millais paid to the ornithologist John Gould shortly before his death in 1881. On the way home, Millais said to his son \"That's a fine subject; a very fine subject. I shall paint it when I have time. \" It was in fact several years after Gould's death before he had time, and the picture as painted is not a representation of Gould or of the actual scene during Millais' visit\u00a0\u2013 the central figure was modelled by the engraver Thomas Oldham Barlow, a friend of the artist, two of the others are professional models, and the two smallest children are Millais' grandchildren (one of whom is William Milbourne James). The painting was well received\u00a0\u2013 the influential critic Ruskin said that it was one of \"only three things worth looking at\" in the R.A. exhibition."},{"label":"DBpedia:Effect_of_Snow_on_Petit-Montrouge","descr":"Effect of Snow on Petit-Montrouge is an 1870 landscape painting by the French painter \u00c9douard Manet. The oil on canvas painting shows a winter view of Petit-Montrouge, an area in the 14th arrondissement of Paris. Manet painted this picture while a member of the National Guard during the 1870\u201371 Siege of Paris of the Franco-Prussian War. As opposed to the history painters of his time, Manet does not show a heroic view of battle, but rather the dusky ambiance of a looming battle. The image reflects Manet's loss of hope about the military situation, his profound loneliness, and the deprivation he suffered during this time. It is one of the few landscapes in Manet's oeuvre, and is one of Manet's first plein air paintings. Today it is in the collection of the National Museum Cardiff."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Bar_(painting)","descr":"The Bar is a 1954 painting by Australian artist John Brack. The subject of the painting is a direct reference to \u00c9douard Manet's 1882 work A Bar at the Folies-Berg\u00e8re. It depicts a barmaid working in an Australian pub at the time of the \"six o'clock swill\". As in Manet's work, the patrons of the bar are shown in a reflection behind the barmaid. The work is considered a companion piece to Brack's later work Collins St. , 5 pm. The painting was first sold to a Melbourne art collector for 90 guineas in 1954. In 2006, the painting sold for $3.12m, a then record for an Australian work of art at auction. The National Gallery of Victoria acquired the painting in 2009. The painting is part of the National Gallery of Victoria's Australian art collection and exhibited in the Ian Potter Centre in Federation Square in Melbourne."},{"label":"DBpedia:Colonel_Mordaunt's_Cock_Match","descr":"Colonel Mordaunt's Cock Match, sometimes called Colonel Mordaunt's Cock Fight, is a painting by Johann Zoffany. The painting records British colonial life in the Indian court of Asaf-Ud-Dowlah. The painting is part of the Tate Gallery collection. The painting was completed in February 1788, four years after the event it records. A recent cleaning has revealed the original colours and the arousal of the central figure."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Parasol","descr":"The Parasol (also known as El Quitasol) is one of a cartoon series of oil on linen paintings made by the painter Francisco Goya. This series of paintings was specifically made in order to be transformed into tapestries that would be hung on the walls of the Royal Palace of El Pardo in Madrid, Spain. The tapestries showed serene events in everyday life, which make them a nice addition to the dining room of Prince and Princess of Asturias\u2014the future King Charles IV and Maria Luisa of Parma. The queen called on Goya because she wanted to decorate the dining room with cheerful scenes; The Parasol and the other tapestry paintings were Goya's response to this request. The painting is currently located in the Museo del Prado in Madrid as is another in the series, Blind man's bluff."},{"label":"DBpedia:Campbell's_Soup_Cans","descr":"Campbell's Soup Cans, which is sometimes referred to as 32 Campbell's Soup Cans, is a work of art produced in 1962 by Andy Warhol. It consists of thirty-two canvases, each measuring 20 inches in height \u00d7 16 inches in width and each consisting of a painting of a Campbell's Soup can\u2014one of each of the canned soup varieties the company offered at the time. The individual paintings were produced by a printmaking method\u2014the semi-mechanized screen printing process, using a non-painterly style. Campbell's Soup Cans' reliance on themes from popular culture helped to usher in pop art as a major art movement in the USA. Warhol, a commercial illustrator who became a successful author, publisher, painter, and film director, showed the work on July 9, 1962 in his first one-man gallery exhibition as a fine artist in the Ferus Gallery of Los Angeles, California. The exhibition marked the West Coast debut of pop art. The combination of the semi-mechanized process, the non-painterly style, and the commercial subject initially caused offense, as the work's blatantly mundane commercialism represented a direct affront to the technique and philosophy of abstract expressionism. In the United States the abstract expressionism art movement was dominant during the post-war period, and it held not only to \"fine art\" values and aesthetics but also to a mystical inclination. This controversy led to a great deal of debate about the merits and ethics of such work. Warhol's motives as an artist were questioned, and they continue to be topical to this day. The large public commotion helped transform Warhol from being an accomplished 1950s commercial illustrator to a notable fine artist, and it helped distinguish him from other rising pop artists. Although commercial demand for his paintings was not immediate, Warhol's association with the subject led to his name becoming synonymous with the Campbell's Soup can paintings. Warhol subsequently produced a wide variety of art works depicting Campbell's Soup cans during three distinct phases of his career, and he produced other works using a variety of images from the world of commerce and mass media. Today, the Campbell's Soup cans theme is generally used in reference to the original set of paintings as well as the later Warhol drawings and paintings depicting Campbell's Soup cans. Because of the eventual popularity of the entire series of similarly themed works, Warhol's reputation grew to the point where he was not only the most-renowned American pop art artist, but also the highest-priced living American artist."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Reading_(Manet_painting)","descr":"The Reading is a painting by French painter \u00c9douard Manet, circa 1865 - 1873."},{"label":"DBpedia:Massacre_of_the_Innocents_(Guido_Reni)","descr":"Massacre of the Innocents is a painting by the Italian Baroque painter Guido Reni, now in the Pinacoteca Nazionale, Bologna."},{"label":"DBpedia:Freedom_of_Speech_(painting)","descr":"Freedom of Speech is one of Four Freedoms paintings by Norman Rockwell that were inspired by United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt in the State of the Union Address, known as Four Freedoms, he delivered to the 77th United States Congress on January 6, 1941. The other paintings in this series were, Freedom from Fear Freedom to Worship Freedom from Want Freedom of Speech was published in the February 20, 1943 Issue of The Saturday Evening Post with a matching essay by Booth Tarkington as part of the Four Freedoms series. Rockwell felt that this and Freedom to Worship were the most successful of the set. Since Rockwell liked to depict life as he experienced it or envisioned it, it is not surprising that this image depicts an actual occurrence. This is a scene of a local town meeting in which one person spoke out in lone dissent but was accorded the floor as a matter of protocol. Once he envisioned this scene to depict freedom of speech, Rockwell decided to use his Vermont neighbors as models for a Four Freedoms series. The painting took four attempts. Earlier versions were troubled by the distraction of multiple subjects and the improper placement and perspective of the subject for the message to be clear. An Arlington, Vermont Rockwell neighbor, Carl Hess, stood as the model for the shy, brave young workman, and another neighbor, Jim Martin, who appears in each painting in the series, is in the scene."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Heart_of_the_Andes","descr":"The Heart of the Andes is a large oil-on-canvas landscape painting by the American artist Frederic Edwin Church (1826\u20131900). More than five feet (1.7 metres) high and almost ten feet (3 metres) wide, it depicts an idealized landscape in the South American Andes, where Church traveled on two occasions. Its exhibition in 1859 was a sensation, and the painting established Church as the foremost landscape painter in the United States. It has been in the collection of New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art since 1909, and is among Church's most renowned works."},{"label":"DBpedia:Where_Do_We_Come_From%3F_What_Are_We%3F_Where_Are_We_Going%3F","descr":"Where Do We Come From? What Are We? Where Are We Going? is a painting by French artist Paul Gauguin. Gauguin inscribed the original French title in the upper left corner: D'o\u00f9 Venons Nous \/ Que Sommes Nous \/ O\u00f9 Allons Nous. The inscription the artist wrote on his canvas has no question mark, no dash, and all words are capitalized. In the upper right corner he signed and dated the painting: P. Gauguin \/ 1897. The painting was created in Tahiti, and is in the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, Massachusetts, USA."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Marriage_of_the_Virgin_(Raphael)","descr":"The Marriage of the Virgin, also known as Lo Sposalizio, is an oil painting by Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael. Completed in 1504 for a Franciscan church in Citt\u00e0 di Castello, the painting depicts a marriage ceremony between Mary and Joseph. It changed hands several times before settling in 1806 at the Pinacoteca di Brera."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Swing_(painting)","descr":"The Swing, also known as The Happy Accidents of the Swing (French: Les Hasards Heureux de l'Escarpolette, the original title), is an 18th century oil painting by Jean-Honor\u00e9 Fragonard in the Wallace Collection in London. It is considered as one of the masterpieces of the rococo era, and is Fragonard's best known work."},{"label":"DBpedia:Russian_Winter._Hoarfrost_(painting)","descr":"Russian Winter. Hoarfrost is a painting by the Russian artist Nikolai Timkov (1912-1993), painted in 1969. It depicts a winter view of Tver land, a picturesque corner near the Academic Dacha."},{"label":"DBpedia:Twittering_Machine","descr":"Twittering Machine (Die Zwitscher-Maschine) is a 1922 watercolor and pen and ink oil transfer on paper by Swiss-German painter Paul Klee. Like other artworks by Klee, it blends biology and machinery, depicting a loosely sketched group of birds on a wire or branch connected to a hand-crank. Interpretations of the work vary widely: it has been perceived as a nightmarish lure for the viewer or a depiction of the helplessness of the artist, but also as a triumph of nature over mechanical pursuits. It has been seen as a visual representation of the mechanics of sound. Originally displayed in Germany, the image was declared \"degenerate art\" by Adolf Hitler in 1933 and sold by the Nazi party to an art dealer in 1939, whence it made its way to New York. One of the better known of more than 9,000 works produced by Klee, it is among the more famous images of the New York Museum of Modern Art (MoMA). It has inspired several musical compositions and, according to a 1987 magazine profile in New York Magazine, has been a popular piece to hang in children's bedrooms."},{"label":"DBpedia:Christ_between_Four_Angels","descr":"The Christ between Four Angels and the Instruments of the Passion is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Vittore Carpaccio, executed in 1496 and now housed in the Civici musei e gallerie di storia e arte of Udine, northern Italy. The work was painted for the church of St. Peter Martyr of Udine. It was acquired by the Austrians after the Napoleonic Wars, and assigned to the Hofmuseum in Vienna in 1838. It was given back to Italy in 1919."},{"label":"DBpedia:A_Woman_Walking_in_a_Garden","descr":"A Woman Walking in a Garden was painted by Vincent Van Gogh in 1887. As the title indicates, it depicts a woman walking through a garden. Greenery is everywhere and numerous trees can be seen in the background. In 1886 van Gogh left Holland for Paris never to return. His brother Theo, a successful Parisian art dealer, provided van Gogh the support and connections for an immersion in modern art. In the two years, from 1886 through 1888, van Gogh emerged as a sophisticated, thoughtful and provoking artist. During 1886 van Gogh was introduced to Impressionist artists and their works, such as Edgar Degas, Claude Monet, Auguste Renoir, Georges Seurat and Paul Signac. In 1887 van Gogh continued to make important connections with other artists who he befriended and exchanged paintings with, such as Louis Anquetin, \u00c9mile Bernard, Armand Guillaumin, Lucien Pissarro and Paul Signac. Having been introduced to Impressionism and Pointillism in Paris, van Gogh began experimenting with related techniques. Van Gogh also utilized complementary colors to allow the formation of vibrant contrasts which enhance each other when juxtaposed."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Magic_Circle_(Waterhouse_painting)","descr":"The Magic Circle is an oil painting in the Pre-Raphaelite style, created in 1886 by John William Waterhouse. The painting depicts a witch or sorceress drawing a fiery magic circle on the earth to create a ritual space."},{"label":"DBpedia:Lebanon_(painting)","descr":"Lebanon is a mural size painting by Nabil Kanso depicting the Lebanese Civil War in a scene invoking the spirit and character of the people in the midst of horror and violence gripping the country. Amid the scene of chaos and devastation, two central figures reach across toward each other symbolically to represent the appeal for unity in defiance of the forces of division, destruction, and terror."},{"label":"DBpedia:Vattenfall_i_Sm%C3%A5land","descr":"Vattenfall i Sm\u00e5land is a 19th century oil painting by Swedish painter Marcus Larson. Painted in 1856, it has been characterized as a typical example of the D\u00fcsseldorf school of painting. 25px This painting-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. vte"},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Bellelli_Family","descr":"The Bellelli Family, also known as Family Portrait, is an oil painting on canvas by Edgar Degas (1834\u20131917), painted ca. 1858\u20131867, and housed in the Mus\u00e9e d'Orsay. A masterwork of Degas' youth, the painting is a portrait of his aunt, her husband, and their two young daughters. While finishing his artistic training in Italy, Degas drew and painted his aunt Laura, her husband the baron Gennaro Bellelli (1812\u20131864), and their daughters Giulia and Giovanna. Although it is not known for certain when or where Degas executed the painting, it is believed that he utilized studies done in Italy to complete the work after his return to Paris. Laura, his father's sister, is depicted in a dress which symbolizes mourning for her father, who had recently died and appears in the framed portrait behind her. The baron was an Italian patriot exiled from Naples, living in Florence. Laura Bellelli's countenance is dignified and austere, her gesture connected with those of her daughters. Her husband, by contrast, appears to be separated from his family. His association with business and the outside world is implied by his position at his desk. Giulia holds a livelier pose than that of her sister Giovanna, whose restraint appears to underscore the familial tensions."},{"label":"DBpedia:L'Amour_et_Psych%C3%A9,_enfants","descr":"L'Amour et Psych\u00e9, enfants is one of William-Adolphe Bouguereau's most famous paintings. It is incorrectly known as Le Premier Baiser (The First Kiss, 1873). The painting is an oil on canvas, 119.5 x 71\u00a0cm (47 x 27 7\/8\u00a0inches), and it is housed in a private collection. The subject of the painting stems from the story of Cupid and Psyche told by Apuleius in The Golden Ass (2nd century)."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Prodigal_Son_in_the_Tavern","descr":"The Prodigal Son in the Brothel is a painting by the Dutch master Rembrandt. It is housed in the Gem\u00e4ldegalerie Alte Meister of Dresden, Germany. It is signed \"REMBRANDT F.\". It portrays two people who had been identified as Rembrandt himself and his wife Saskia. In the Protestant contemporary world, the theme of the prodigal son was a frequent subject for works of art due to its moral background. Rembrandt himself painted a Return of the Prodigal Son in 1669. The left side of the canvas was cut, perhaps by the artist himself, to remove secondary characters and focus the observer's attention on the main theme."},{"label":"DBpedia:La_N%C3%A9gresse","descr":"La N\u00e9gresse 1952\/1953; by Henri Matisse is a gouache d\u00e9coup\u00e9e. During the early-to-mid-1940s Matisse was in poor health. Eventually by 1950 he stopped painting in favor of his paper cutouts. La Negresse, is an example of Matisse's final body of works known as the cutouts. He initially created this work as a large wall piece."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Bathers_(C%C3%A9zanne)","descr":"The Bathers is an oil painting by French artist Paul C\u00e9zanne first exhibited in 1906. The painting is the largest of a series of \"Bather\" paintings by C\u00e9zanne; the others are in the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, National Gallery, London and the Art Institute of Chicago. Occasionally referred to as the Big Bathers or Large Bathers to distinguish it from the smaller works, the painting is considered one of the masterpieces of modern art, and is often considered C\u00e9zanne's finest work. C\u00e9zanne worked on the painting for seven years, and it remained unfinished at the time of his death in 1906. The painting was purchased in 1937 for $110,000 with funds from a trust fund for the Philadelphia Museum of Art by their major benefactor Joseph E. Widener. It was previously owned by Leo Stein. With each version of the bathers, C\u00e9zanne moved away from the traditional presentation of paintings, intentionally creating works which would not appeal to the novice viewer. He did this in order to avoid fleeting fads and give a timeless quality to his work, and in so doing paved the way for future artists to disregard current trends and paint pieces which would appeal equally to all generations. The abstract nude females present in Large Bathers give the painting tension and density. It is exceptional among his work in symmetrical dimensions, with the adaption of the nude forms to the triangular pattern of the trees and river. Using the same technique as employed in painting landscapes and still lifes, Large Bathers is reminiscent of the work of Titian and Peter Paul Rubens. Comparisons are also often made with the other famous group of nude women of the same period, Picasso's Les Demoiselles d'Avignon. The purchase of the painting, while generally praised, was nevertheless questioned by The Philadelphia Record, which noted that 41,000 (or ten percent) of Philadelphia's residents were without bathtubs, and that the money could therefore have been better spent elsewhere. While C\u00e9zanne's drawing ability has always been criticized, a critic once said that he \"made the ineptly drawn Bathers a warm evocation of leisurely summer bliss. \" The painting was featured in the BBC Two series 100 Great Paintings."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Crowning_with_Thorns_(Titian)","descr":"The Crowning with Thorns is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Titian. It is housed in the Mus\u00e9e du Louvre in Paris, France. It was commissioned by the confraternity of Santa Maria delle Grazie in Milan. It was brought to France after the Napoleonic conquest of the city in 1797."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Death_of_the_Earl_of_Chatham","descr":"The Death of the Earl of Chatham is the title of a 1781 oil-on-canvas painting by Boston-born American artist John Singleton Copley. It depicts the collapse of William Pitt, 1st Earl of Chatham on 7 April 1778, during a debate in the House of Lords on the American War of Independence. Chatham is surrounded by peers of the realm, and the painting contains fifty-five portraits."},{"label":"DBpedia:Lucretia_(Veronese)","descr":"Lucretia is a painting by Paolo Veronese from circa 1585."},{"label":"DBpedia:Leonidas_at_Thermopylae","descr":"Leonidas at Thermopylae is an 1814 painting by Jacques-Louis David now on show at the Louvre. It shows the Spartan king Leonidas prior to the Battle of Thermopylae. David's pupil Georges Rouget collaborated on it."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Storm_on_the_Sea_of_Galilee","descr":"The Storm on the Sea of Galilee is a painting from 1633 by the Dutch Golden Age painter Rembrandt van Rijn that was in the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum of Boston, Massachusetts, United States, prior to being stolen on March 18, 1990. The painting depicts the miracle of Jesus calming the storm on the Sea of Galilee, as depicted in the fourth chapter of the Gospel of Mark in the New Testament of the Christian Bible. It is Rembrandt's only seascape. It is widely believed, because of the fourteen people in the boat, that Rembrandt painted himself in the boat along with the twelve disciples and Jesus. The crewmember looking out toward the viewer of the painting has been suggested as being a self-portrait of Rembrandt."},{"label":"DBpedia:Ince_Hall_Madonna","descr":"The Virgin and Child Reading (also the Ince Hall Madonna) is an oil painting attributed to the Early Netherlandish master Jan van Eyck, from 1433. It is on display in the National Gallery of Victoria in Melbourne. The inscription on the wall at top left says: \"COPLETV ANO D M CCCC XXXIIJ P IOHEM DE EYC BRVGIS\". There is a motto on the right: \"ALC IXH XAN\" (\"As I Can\")."},{"label":"DBpedia:Ovid_among_the_Scythians","descr":"Ovid among the Scythians (1859 and 1862) is the title of two oil paintings by French artist Eug\u00e8ne Delacroix. The little famous second version was painted to integrate the figures and landscape and rectified the problems of scale of the first version, which unusual composition and strange scale of the characters provoked negative criticism, even among Delacroix's admirers such as Baudelaire and Gautier, although artists like Edgar Degas were deeply impressed. Delacroix painted this subject first in 1844 as part of the decorations for the ceiling of the Library of the Palais Bourbon in Paris. They depict the life of the Ancient Roman poet Ovid when exiled by the Emperor Augustus to the Black Sea port of Tomis in south east Romania, in Scythia, where he spent his last eight years and wrote poems such as Tristia and Epistulae ex Ponto. Scythians were an Ancient Iranian people whose way of life was described by Herodotus in his Histories as \"nomadic\" and Ovid himself called them a \"wild tribe\". However, with its cultured man standing before barbarous people, the 1859 picture show the Scythians treating the poet with sympathy and curiosity, and is a fine treatment of the theme of civilisation confronted with barbarity. Henri Loyrette wrote: Low but sometimes steep mountains covered with scrubby vegetation surround a still, shallow lake, boggy at its edges; scattered huts built precariously of wood and thatch suggest a pastoral and nomadic culture. In the foreground a man milks a large mare; behind him, various figures are casually placed, squatting, walking or standing still \u2013 a child, an old man, a nursling in its mother's arms, soldiers, resting shepherds. And, dolefully stretched out on a gentle incline, swathed in drapery, lies the figure identified by the painting's title as Ovid. He appears like a fallen meteorite on whom converge the friendly but startled inhabitants of this savage country. Delacroix has given him the pose of a Madonna in a Nativity [... ...]. The first version was exhibited in the Paris Salon of 1859, the last in which Delacroix participated. The composition reinterprets ideas that Delacroix had previously used in decorative compositions such as The Massacre at Chios, Death of Sardanapalus and Entry of the Crusaders in Constantinople. At the time of its exhibition, the landscape with its mountains was \"universally\" praised, while the mare in the foreground was thought strange by some. Th\u00e9ophile Gautier, for example, admired the painting, but ironically called the mare la femelle du cheval de Troie (\"the female of the trojan horse\"). Maxime Du Camp was the author of the harshest criticism, calling the painting \"a spectacle of irremissible decadence\" and advising the painter \"to return to the literary works that he loves and to the music for which he was certainly born\". Baudelaire, in his last Salon criticism, called the painting \"one of these amazing works\" and saying \"Delacroix knows the design and painting\", and also wrote a long essay on the life of an exiled poet and also quoting Chateaubriand's epic Les Martyrs to evoke \"the landscape, its solitude, its calm charm\". Zacharie Astruc, in his first Salon criticism, praised all the details in the picture: Ovid (\"what noble elegance!\"); the mare (\"what color and air around it!\"); the dog, which made him think about classical sculpture; the water (\"a strange beauty\"); and, above all, the landscape. In the catalog, by Delacroix himself, was written: \"Some examine him [Ovid Ovid] with interest, others go home and offer wild fruit and mare's milk, etc. , etc. \" The wildness and the misunderstood genius were key concepts in Romanticism and are very well portrayed in these two paintings by Delacroix. The second version, contrary to what one might think, is not an oil sketch but a completed version which develops many elements of the London work. Delacroix painted it with more vivid colors, replaced the barbarian with a shield on the back by a woman bringing food, and also closely integrated the figures and landscape in a manner that is more in keeping with a historical landscape. It was painted a year before his death, in 1862, most probably for a private collector. It was given to Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, in honour of Philippe de Montebello, in 2008. According to Gary Tinterow, the Metropolitan\u2019s curator of 19th-century, Modern and contemporary art: \"this is his late, final statement on a theme that interested him his whole life.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Peasant_Character_Studies_(Van_Gogh_series)","descr":"Peasant Character Studies is a series of works that Vincent van Gogh made between 1881 and 1885. Van Gogh had a particular attachment and sympathy for the working class fueled in several ways. He was particularly fond of the peasant genre work of Jean-Fran\u00e7ois Millet and others. He found the subjects noble and important in the development of modern art. Van Gogh had seen the changing landscape in Holland as industrialization encroached on once pastoral settings and the livelihoods of the working poor with little opportunity to change vocation. Van Gogh had a particular interest in creating character studies of working men and women in Holland and Belgium, such as farmers, weavers, and fishermen. Making up a large body of Van Gogh's work during this period, the character studies were an important, foundational component in his artistic development."},{"label":"DBpedia:Mont_Sainte-Victoire_seen_from_Bellevue","descr":"Mont Sainte-Victoire seen from Bellevue is a landscape painting dating from around 1885, by the French artist Paul C\u00e9zanne. The subject of the painting is the Montagne Sainte-Victoire in Provence in southern France. C\u00e9zanne spent a lot of time in Aix-en-Provence at the time, and developed a special relationship with the landscape. This particular mountain, that stood out in the surrounding landscape, he could see from his house, and he painted it in on numerous occasions. Moreover, C\u00e9zanne depicted the railway bridge on the Aix-Marseille line at the Arc River Valley in the center on the right side of this picture. The painting shows clearly C\u00e9zanne's project of rendering order and clarity to natural scenes, without giving up the optical realism of Impressionism. Both the light and the colours of the painting give the impression of a pattern that is not imposed on nature, but is there naturally."},{"label":"DBpedia:Self_Portrait_with_Two_Circles","descr":"Self Portrait with Two Circles is an oil on canvas painting by the Dutch artist Rembrandt, painted c. 1665\u201369. In it, he is seen at work, holding his palette, brushes, and maulstick. The painting is notable for its monumentality and for an enigmatic background consisting of a shallow space with the fragments of two circles. It is the most ambitious self-portrait in which he is depicted at work and is considered a masterpiece of his last years."},{"label":"DBpedia:L'Arl%C3%A9sienne_(painting)","descr":"L'Arl\u00e9sienne, L'Arl\u00e9sienne (Madame Ginoux), or Portrait of Madame Ginoux is the title given to a group of six similar paintings by Vincent van Gogh, painted in Arles, November 1888 (or later), and in Auvers, February 1890. L'Arl\u00e9sienne is pronounced 'lar lay zyen'; it means literally \"the woman from Arles\". The subject, Marie Jullian (or Julien), was born in Arles June 8, 1848 and died there August 2, 1911. She married Joseph-Michel Ginoux in 1866 and together they ran the Caf\u00e9 de la Gare, 30 Place Lamartine, where Van Gogh lodged from May to mid September 1888. He had the Yellow House in Arles furnished to settle there. Evidently until this time, Van Gogh's relations to M. and Mme. Ginoux had remained more or less commercial, but Gauguin's arrival in Arles altered the situation. His courtship charmed the lady, then about 40 years of age, and in the first few days of November 1888 (November 1, or more probably November 2) Madame Ginoux agreed to have a portrait session for Paul Gauguin, and his friend Van Gogh. Within an hour, Gauguin produced a charcoal drawing while Vincent produced a full-scale painting, \"knocked off in one hour\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:Last_Supper_(Rubens)","descr":"The Last Supper (1630\u20131631) is an oil painting by Peter Paul Rubens. It depicts Jesus and the Apostles during the Last Supper, with Judas turning back towards the viewer and away from the table. As in many other Northern European depictions, a dog with a bone can be seen near Judas, perhaps representing greed, or representing Satan, as the companion of Judas, as in John 13:27. This painting followed the first unsuccessful attempt by Rubens to produce a Last Supper in 1611, when his patrons backed out the last minute, perhaps due to the high price of 4,000 Guilder asked by Rubens."},{"label":"DBpedia:Oddi_Altarpiece_(Raphael)","descr":"The Oddi Altarpiece is an altarpiece of the Coronation of the Virgin painted in 1502-1504 by the Italian Renaissance master Raphael for the altar of the Oddi family chapel in the church of San Francesco al Prato in Perugia, Italy, now in the Vatican Pinacoteca."},{"label":"DBpedia:La_donna_gravida","descr":"La donna gravida (or simply La gravida; Italian for \"The Pregnant Woman\") is an oil on wood portrait by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael. It was painted between 1505 and 1506, during Raphael's stay in Florence, Italy. It is currently housed in the Palazzo Pitti in Florence. The portrait depicts a woman who is pregnant sitting with her left hand resting on her stomach. Paintings of pregnant women were unusual in the Renaissance period."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_West_Wind_(painting)","descr":"The West Wind is a well-known painting by Canadian artist Tom Thomson. An iconic image, the pine at its centre has been described as growing \"in the national ethos as our one and only tree in a country of trees\". It was the artist's final painting, and according to some art historians was unfinished at the time of his sudden death by drowning in 1917. Thomson based The West Wind on an earlier, slightly different sketch he produced in 1916 while working as a park ranger in Algonquin Park. In the finished canvas Thomson moved the pine further to the right, replaced a less defined foreground plane with strongly patterned rock shapes, and removed a dead tree limb from the ground. The location of the subject is uncertain; Thomson's friend Winifred Trainor believed the site represented was Cedar Lake, though Grand Lake, Algonquin Park has also been proposed as the setting. Some locals believe the location to be on Kawawaymog Lake. As in his iconic The Jack Pine, Thomson began the painting with an undercoat of vermilion that he allowed to show through in various places to contrast with the greens, to lend the work a feeling of \"vibration\" and movement. The pine dominates the composition without obscuring the view into the distance, and is successful as both specific representation and abstract design. Though not imposing in scale, it is a graceful arabesque decoration, \"a magnified bonsai\". Thomson's background in design lent his composition an art-nouveau sensibility, for example, \"in the way a single tree stands silhouetted against water or the sky like a symbol of romantic solitude\". An earlier reviewer noticed the same effect in it and The Jack Pine: \"[these these] two best-known canvases... are essentially Art Nouveau designs in the flat, the principal motif in each case being a tree drawn in great sinuous curves... Such pictures, are, however, saved from complete stylization by the use of uncompromisingly native subject-matter and of Canadian colours, the glowing colours of autumn. \" According to Trainor, Thomson was not satisfied with the picture, fearing that the flat abstract shapes of the foreground rocks and trees were inconsistent with the atmospheric conception of the background. However, for Thomson's colleague Arthur Lismer, the trees in The West Wind were symbolic of the national character, models of resolve against the elements. Thomson biographer and curator Joan Murray, while initially disliking the painting, wrote that it \"is a powerful canvas; resonating with its message of weather and wind, it expressed the divine as some of us imagine it in Canada. This is the sort of tree that would stand at the gates of heaven to open the doors of the kingdom. \" The Canadian Club of Toronto donated The West Wind to the recently opened Art Gallery of Toronto. Librarian George Locke, a club member, announced the donation in a speech, praising Thomson's accomplishments: \"Thomson needs no tablet to commemorate his achievements ... He has left us work that expresses our national life \u2013 the forces of the great natural surroundings of this young land. \" On the fiftieth anniversary of Thomson's death, the Canadian government honoured him with a series of stamps portraying his works, including The West Wind and The Jack Pine. On 3 May 1990 Canada Post issued 'The West Wind, Tom Thomson, 1917' in the Masterpieces of Canadian art series. The stamp was designed by Pierre-Yves Pelletier based on an oil painting \"The West Wind\", (1917) by Thomas John Thomson in the Art Gallery of Ontario, Toronto, Ontario. The 50\u00a2 stamps are perforated 13 X 13.5 and were printed by Ashton-Potter Limited."},{"label":"DBpedia:Haller_Madonna","descr":"The Haller Madonna is an oil painting by Albrecht D\u00fcrer, dating to around 1498. It is now in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC."},{"label":"DBpedia:Adrianus_Jacobus_Zuyderland_(Van_Gogh_series)","descr":"Adrianus Jacobus Zuyderland was Vincent van Gogh's favorite model during his Hague period. He appears in dozens of drawings, easily identified by his bald head and prominent white whiskers, and he was the model for van Gogh's iconic painting At Eternity's Gate."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Gallant_Conversation","descr":"The Gallant Conversation is an oil-on-canvas painting from circa 1654 by Gerard ter Borch (the Younger). A late 18th century French print of the work is titled The Paternal Admonition, apparently believing it showed a father reprimanding his daughter, but modern art historians see it as a conversation between two prospective lovers, either a discussion of a betrothal or, more likely, a customer propositioning a prostitute in a brothel."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Discovery_of_America_by_Christopher_Columbus","descr":"The Discovery of America by Christopher Columbus is the name of a painting by artist Salvador Dal\u00ed, begun in 1958 and finished in 1959. It is over 14 feet tall and over 9 feet wide (410\u00a0x\u00a0284\u00a0cm; 161.4\u00a0x\u00a0111.8\u00a0in), one in a series of large paintings Dal\u00ed did during this era."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Princess_(Pisanello)","descr":"Portrait of Princess is a tempera painting on panel attributed to the Italian Late-Gothic master Pisanello. It was probably executed between 1435 and 1449 and is also known as Portrait of a Princess of the House of Este. It is firmly attributed to Pisanello on stylistic grounds and because he stayed in Ferrara in the period, where he also finished a portrait and a celebrative medal of Marquis Leonello d'Este. The princess is shown in profile against a background of numerous butterflies and columbine flowers. The butterfly near the princess' brow is a symbol of the soul. The painting is currently housed and exhibited in the Mus\u00e9e du Louvre in Paris, France."},{"label":"DBpedia:Conversion_of_Paul_(Bruegel)","descr":"Conversion of Paul is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1567. It is currently held and exhibited at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna."},{"label":"DBpedia:Prometheus_Being_Chained_by_Vulcan","descr":"Prometheus Being Chained by Vulcan is an oil painting of 1623 by Dirck van Baburen of the Utrecht School, and an example of Baroque chiaroscuro. The painting represents a tale from Roman mythology. Mercury, the messenger of the gods, watches the club-footed blacksmith god, Vulcan, punish the bold and cunning Titan Prometheus for stealing fire from the gods and giving it to mortals. Prometheus's punishment is to be bound to a rock and to have his liver consumed daily by an eagle. The painting mysteriously has two signatures: the first is a clear signature below the right-hand shoulder of Prometheus. During a restoration of the painting, a second signature was discovered at the lower left by his hand. Prometheus is associated with the Greek creation myth in that, in some versions, he creates humans from clay and the stolen fire is to bring them to life. A painting, Adam and Eve, also by Baburen, was sold at auction in 1707 together with the Prometheus Being Chained by Vulcan, and one might conjecture that the two works formed a pair, both being illustrations of creation."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Shrimp_Girl","descr":"The Shrimp Girl is a painting by the English artist William Hogarth. It was painted around 1740\u201345, and is held by the National Gallery, London. The painting, a relatively late work by Hogarth, is one of several in which he experimented with a loose, almost impressionistic style comparable to the work of Fragonard. In its subject matter, it resembles the prints of hawkers and traders popular in Hogarth's day. The painting depicts a woman selling shellfish on the streets of London, typically a job for the wives and daughters of fishmongers who owned stalls in markets such as Billingsgate. The subject balances a large basket on her head, bearing shrimps and mussels, together with a half-pint pewter pot as a measure. Its size suggests that it was intended as a portrait, rather than a sketch for a larger work. It is not strictly finished and was still in Hogarth's estate after his death. His widow Jane was said to have told visitors on showing the picture to them: \"They say he could not paint flesh. There is flesh and blood for you. \" It was only sold after his wife's death in 1789, and first received its title The Shrimp Girl in a Christie's sale catalogue. The painting (retitled The Saleswoman of Crabs) was used on a postage stamp by the Yemen Arab Republic in 1969."},{"label":"DBpedia:Dancing_Girl_(Rabindranath_Tagore)","descr":"Dancing Girl is a painting by Nobel laureate, Rabindranath Tagore."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Stone_Breakers","descr":"The Stone Breakers (French: Les Casseurs de pierres) was an 1849\u201350 painting by the French painter Gustave Courbet. It was a work of social realism, depicting two peasants, a young man and an old man, breaking rocks. The painting was first exhibited at the Paris Salon of 1850. It was destroyed during World War II, along with 154 other pictures, when a transport vehicle moving the pictures to the castle of K\u00f6nigstein, near Dresden, was bombed by Allied forces in February 1945."},{"label":"DBpedia:Madonna_della_seggiola","descr":"-- 18:23, 3 March 2013 (UTC) Madonna della seggiola 300px Artist Raphael Year 1513-1514 Type Oil on panel Dimensions 71\u00a0cm \u00d7\u00a071\u00a0cm Location Palazzo Pitti, Florence The Madonna della seggiola or Madonna della sedia is a Madonna painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael, dating to c. 1513-1514 and housed in the Palazzo Pitti collection in Florence. It depicts Mary embracing the child Christ, while the young John the Baptist devoutly watches. Painted during his Roman period, this Madonna does not have the strict geometrical form and linear style of his earlier Florentine treatments of the same subject. Instead, the warmer colors seem to suggest the influence of Titian and Raphael's rival Sebastiano del Piombo. Maria Montessori, Italian doctor and pioneer in pedagogy, wrote that it was her wish that the Madonna della seggiola hang in each Children's House (Montessori school) as a symbol of \"humanity [St. John] rendering homage to maternity [Madonna Madonna]\". Ingres greatly admired Raphael and paid tribute to him by including this painting in many of his works, such in the background of as and, on the table in front of the subject in his, and worked into the carpet in Napoleon I on his Imperial Throne."},{"label":"DBpedia:Presentation_at_the_Temple_(Ambrogio_Lorenzetti)","descr":"The Presentation at the Temple is a painting by the Italian late medieval painter Ambrogio Lorenzetti, signed and dated 1342, now housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence, Italy. It is one of the largest works by the Italian medieval painter, as well as one of the five which he signed and dated."},{"label":"DBpedia:Le_Lanceur_De_Couteaux","descr":"Le Lanceur De Couteaux is a paper cut by Henri Matisse from 1947. It is from Jazz, 1947. T\u00e9riade, a noted 20th century art publisher, arranged to have Matisse's cutouts rendered as pochoir prints. The knife thrower was a popular print from the Jazz portfolio."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Isabella_d'Este_(Titian)","descr":"Portrait of Isabella d'Este is an oil-on-canvas painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Titian created between 1534 and 1536. It shows the Marquess of Mantua, Isabella d'Este (1474\u20131539), daughter of Ercole I d'Este, Duke of Ferrara, and Eleanor of Naples. Although she is shown as a young woman, Isabella was 62 by the time the work was painted. Titian had originally painted a more aged Isabella, but she was so displeased with the picture that she made him repaint it in an idealised form, so that she looked forty years younger. Titian concentrates on her high social rank, beauty and intelligence. Isabella was a collector of antique and contemporary art, and as a powerful patron of culture was in part responsible for developing a highly refined court in Mantua. Because of this Titian would have been keen to flatter and pay tribute to his sitter. She is shown wearing a sumptuous balzo and gown with sleeves decorated with gold and silver trim. Isabella had very strong ideas about how she should be portrayed, and had requested of previous artists that she be painted from written descriptions - believing words captured more closely a person's essence than life sittings. Isabella sought to influence Titian by sending him a 1511 portrait painted by Giovanni Francesco Zaninello which showed her as a young woman and highlighted her girlish beauty. This work was in turn based on an even earlier portrait. She was so pleased with Titian's second, idealised, work that she wrote, \"The portrait by Titian's hand is of such a pleasing type that we doubt that we were ever, at the age he represents, of such beauty that is contained in it. \" Others were not so impressed by the obvious deceit. Contemporary writer and satirist Pietro Aretino wrote that she was \"dishonestly ugly\" and \"supremely dishonestly embellished\" with undeserved \"white teeth\" and \"ivory eyelashes\". Art historians examining the work tend to focus on the her vanity, while largely acknowledging that court women of the time were on public display and expected to be physically pleasing and personally charming while at the same time showing signs of modesty and chastity. This was not the first time that Titian had flattered a sitter with a rejuvenated, retrospective, or idealised image; his portrait of Philip II of Spain shows the king, who was puny in life, as a military hero bathed by light to grant both an aura to the hero and an actual halo. Portrait of Isabella d'Este had earlier been mistakenly described as a portrait of the Queen of Cyprus before it was correctly identified by Alessandro Luzio."},{"label":"DBpedia:Finding_of_the_body_of_St_Mark","descr":"The Finding of the body of St Mark or Rediscovery of the body of Saint Mark is a painting by Tintoretto. Dated to between 1562 and 1566, it is part of a cycle of paintings of the patron saint of Venice. It is now held in the Pinacoteca di Brera in Milan. Like its companion piece, St Mark's Body Brought to Venice, the composition exemplifies Tintoretto's preference for dramatic effects of perspective and light. According to the art historian Thomas Nichols, \"the linear logic of the emptied, boxlike perspective vistas is undermined by an irrational play of light and shade. Both paintings suggest the simultaneous existence of different levels of reality through the use of a range of pictorial techniques.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Landscape_with_a_Church_at_Twilight","descr":"Landscape with a Church at Twilight is an oil painting created in 1883 by Vincent van Gogh."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Concert_Singer","descr":"The Concert Singer is a painting by Thomas Eakins (1844\u20131916), depicting the singer Weda Cook (1867\u20131937). The work, commenced in 1890 and completed in 1892, was Eakins's first full-length portrait of a woman. It is now in the Philadelphia Museum of Art. The Concert Singer was one of a series of portraits Eakins painted of Philadelphia natives who were prominent in science and culture, with the intent of producing major showpieces for exhibition. The painting exemplifies Eakins's desire to truthfully record visual appearances with \"historical value. \" Eakins drew, painted, or sculpted at least twenty-two works that dealt with the visual aspects of music; at one point, this included \"eleven straight portraits of musicians and musicologists\", of which The Concert Singer has been called \"the finest\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_a_Man_(Self_Portrait%3F)","descr":"The Portrait of a Man (Self Portrait?), also often known as Portrait of a Man in a Turban, or in a red turban, etc. , is an oil painting by the Early Netherlandish master Jan van Eyck, from 1433. It has been in the National Gallery, London since 1851, having been in England since Thomas Howard, 21st Earl of Arundel acquired it, probably during his exile in Antwerp from 1642-44. The original frame survives (the vertical sides are in fact a single piece of wood with the central panel), and has the painted inscription JOHES DE EYCK ME FECIT ANO MCCCC.33. 21. OCTOBRIS (\"Jan Van Eyck Made Me on October 21, 1433\") at the bottom and at the top the motto AlC IXH XAN (\"I Do as I Can\"), which appears on other van Eyck paintings, always written in Greek letters, and includes a pun on his name. As on other van Eyck frames, the letters are painted to appear carved. Like all Van Eyck's portraits, it shows a sharp and detailed analysis of the physical lines. It is however without any treatment of the subject's thoughts and moods. The subject is often thought to be van Eyck himself, though there is no direct evidence for this. The costume is appropriate for a man of van Eyck's social position, and the motto is his personal one, otherwise only appearing on two surviving religious paintings, two more known only from copies, and the portrait of his wife. In none is it as prominent as here. He is not in fact wearing a turban, but a chaperon with the ends that normally hang down tied up over the top, which would be a sensible precaution if it was worn whilst painting. A similar chaperon is worn by a figure in the background of van Eyck's Rolin Madonna, and it has also been suggested that this is a self-portrait. Typically for van Eyck, the head is a little large in relation to the torso. The technique shows the \"skill, economy and speed\" of van Eyck's best work. Campbell describes the painting of the left eye as follows: \"The white of the eye is laid in white mixed with minute quantities of red and blue. A very thin scumble of red is brought over the underlayer, which is, however, left exposed in four places to create the secondary highlights. The veins are painted in vermilion into the wet scumble. The iris is ultra-marine, fairly pure at its circumference but mixed with white and black towards the pupil. There are black flecks near the circumference and the pupil is painted in black over the blue of the iris. The principal catchlights are four spots of lead white applied as final touches, one on the iris and three on the white, where they register with the four secondary lights to create the glistening effect.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Barcelona_Series","descr":"The Barcelona Series is a series of fifty black and white lithographs made by Joan Mir\u00f3 and published in 1944. They are currently in the permanent collection of the Mir\u00f3 Foundation in Barcelona."},{"label":"DBpedia:Temptation_of_St._Thomas_(Vel%C3%A1zquez)","descr":"The Temptation of St. Thomas is a painting by the Spanish Baroque painter Diego Vel\u00e1zquez, executed in 1632 and housed in the Museum of Sacred Art of Orihuela Cathedral, southern Spain. The work, for a period, was attributed to Murcian painter Nicol\u00e1s de Villacis, until it was recognized as Vel\u00e1zquez's in the 1920s. It portrays the episode of the life of St. Thomas of Aquino when, as a novice, he resisted the temptation represented by a prostitute, who is visible in the background door. The saint is held by an angel, while another is preparing to dress him with a white ribbon, representing chastity."},{"label":"DBpedia:Mond_Crucifixion","descr":"The Mond Crucifixion (or Crocifissione Gavari; both names are after former owners) is a painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. An early work influenced by Perugino, it was originally an altarpiece in the church of San Domenico in Citt\u00e0 di Castello, near Raphael's hometown of Urbino. The painting shows Jesus on the cross, who is looking peaceful even though he is dying. There are two angels catching his blood in chalices. On Jesus' left kneels Mary Magdalene, with John the Evangelist standing behind her. On his right Mary (mother of Jesus) stands, and St. Jerome, to whom the altar was dedicated, is kneeling. At the foot of the cross is the inscription (\"Raphael of Urbino painted this\") in silver letters. The painting was bequeathed to the National Gallery by Ludwig Mond."},{"label":"DBpedia:Assumption_of_the_Virgin_Mary_(Rubens)","descr":"The Assumption of the Virgin Mary or Assumption of the Holy Virgin, is a painting by Peter Paul Rubens, completed in 1626 as an altarpiece for the high altar of the Cathedral of Our Lady, Antwerp, where it remains. In Rubens' depiction of the Assumption of Mary, a choir of angels lifts her in a spiraling motion toward a burst of divine light. Around her tomb are gathered the 12 apostles \u2014 some with their arms raised in awe; others reaching to touch her discarded shroud. The women in the painting are thought to be Mary Magdalene and the Virgin Mary's two sisters. A kneeling woman holds a flower, referring to the lilies that miraculously filled the empty coffin. The Antwerp Cathedral of Our Lady opened a competition for an Assumption altar in 1611. Rubens submitted models to the clergy on February 16, 1618. In September 1626, 15 years later, he completed the piece. There is a smaller studio version, with some differences, in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Martyrdom_of_Saint_Lawrence_(Titian)","descr":"The Martyrdom of Saint Lawrence is a 1558 painting by Titian, now in the church of I Gesuiti in Venice. It so impressed Philip II of Spain that he commissioned a second version in 1567 for the basilica at El Escorial."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Dr._Gachet","descr":"Portrait of Dr. Gachet is one of the most revered paintings by the Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh. It depicts Dr. Paul Gachet, who took care of van Gogh during the final months of his life. There are two authenticated versions of the portrait, both painted in June 1890 at Auvers. Both show Doctor Gachet sitting at a table and leaning his head on his right arm, but they are easily differentiated in color and style. In 1990, the first version fetched a record price of $82.5 million ($75 million, plus a 10 percent buyer's commission) when sold at auction in New York. When accounting for inflation, this is still the highest price paid for art at a public auction."},{"label":"DBpedia:Ship_of_Fools_(painting)","descr":"Ship of Fools (painted c. 1490\u20131500) is a painting by Hieronymus Bosch which may be intended to exemplify the human condition. The painting is dense in symbolism and is indebted to, if not actually satirical of Albrecht D\u00fcrer's frontispiece of Sebastian Brant's book of the same name. The painting as we see it today is a fragment of a triptych that was cut into several parts. The Ship of Fools was painted on one of the wings of the altarpiece, and is about two thirds of its original length. The bottom third of the panel belongs to Yale University Art Gallery and is exhibited under the title Allegory of Gluttony. The wing on the other side, which has more or less retained its full length, is the Death and the Miser, now in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C.. The two panels together would have represented the two extremes of prodigiality and miserliness, condemning and caricaturing both. The painting is oil on wood, measuring 58\u00a0cm x 33\u00a0cm (23\" x 13\"). It is on display in the Mus\u00e9e du Louvre, Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:A_Lady_Writing_a_Letter","descr":"A Lady Writing a Letter (also known as A Lady Writing; Dutch: Schrijvend meisje) is an oil painting attributed to 17th century Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. It is believed to have been completed around 1665. The Lady is seen to be writing a letter and has been interrupted, so gently turns her head to see what is happening. She wears twelve pearls (10 on the necklace and two earrings). Many of the objects seen in the painting, such as the woman's coat, the cloth on the table, and the string of pearls, also appear in other Vermeer works. This has led to speculation that he or his family members owned the objects, and even that the subjects of the paintings are his relatives. It has often been suggested that in his paintings, Vermeer sought to grant to his models that which he could not endow to his wife and family: calm and affluence. A Lady Writing a Letter was donated to the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. in 1962 by Harry Waldron Havemeyer and Horace Havemeyer. In its first loan to the Norton Simon Museum, the National Gallery of Art agreed to lend the painting for exhibition at the Pasadena, California museum from November 7, 2008 through February 9, 2009. In Blue Balliett's children's book, Chasing Vermeer, A Lady Writing is stolen on its way from the National Gallery of Art to Chicago, causing the main problem of the story."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Vincent_Nubiola","descr":"Portrait of Vincent Nubiola is an oil painting by Spanish Catalan artist Joan Mir\u00f3. Painted in 1917 when Mir\u00f3 was 24 years old, a year before his first exhibition, the portrait is now considered a masterpiece from a period when he experimented with both Cubism and Fauvism. It is also said by some art critics to show the influence of Van Gogh. Acquired for a time by Picasso, the painting is now in the permanent collection of the Folkwang Museum in Essen (Germany)."},{"label":"DBpedia:Coalbrookdale_by_Night","descr":"Coalbrookdale by Night is an 1801 painting by Philip James de Loutherbourg. It depicts the Madeley Wood (or Bedlam) Furnaces, which belonged to the Coalbrookdale Company from 1776 to 1796. The picture has come to symbolize the birth of the Industrial Revolution in Ironbridge, England. It is held in the collections of the Science Museum in London."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Last_Supper_(Leonardo_da_Vinci)","descr":"The Last Supper (Italian: Il Cenacolo or L'Ultima Cena) is a late 15th century mural painting by Leonardo da Vinci in the refectory of the Convent of Santa Maria della Grazie, Milan. The work is presumed to have been commenced around 1495 and was commissioned as part of a scheme of renovations to the church and its convent buildings by Leonardo's patron Ludovico Sforza, Duke of Milan. The painting represents the scene of The Last Supper of Jesus with his disciples, as it is told in the Gospel of John, 13:21. Leonardo has depicted the consternation that occurred among the Twelve Disciples when Jesus announced that one of them would betray him. 32x28px Art portal"},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Siren_(Waterhouse_painting)","descr":"The Siren is a painting by John William Waterhouse. The painting depicts a siren sitting at the edge of a cliff, lyre in hand and staring down at a shipwrecked sailor floating in water, who in turn is staring up at her. According to the William Waterhouse's website, this picture was painted in 1900 and is now in a private collection. The estimated sale price for the painting in 2003 was one million pounds."},{"label":"DBpedia:Albertine_i_politil%C3%A6gens_ventev%C3%A6relse","descr":"Albertine i politil\u00e6gens ventev\u00e6relse (English: Albertine at the Police Doctor's Waiting Room; finished 1887) is the title of a naturalist painting by Norwegian artist Christian Krohg, showing the scene in a waiting room. Albertine i politil\u00e6gens ventev\u00e6relse is regarded as Krohg's principal work as a social painter. The painting touched the taboo subject of sexual life, and led to a heated debate among his contemporaries. The format of the painting is unusually large; people are portrayed in full scale. The painting is held in the National Gallery in Oslo."},{"label":"DBpedia:Mademoiselle_Rose","descr":"Mademoiselle Rose (also Seated Nude) is a painting by French Romantic artist Eug\u00e8ne Delacroix, regarded as the leader of the French Romantic school. This nude was painted before 1824, and is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris. Another is at the Alte Nationalgalerie in Berlin."},{"label":"DBpedia:Cabaret_Scene","descr":"Cabaret Scene (1922) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dal\u00ed. This was a unique cubist experiment that came between Dal\u00ed's early impressionist work and the classic surrealist technique he would later develop. 30px This art-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it. vte"},{"label":"DBpedia:Head_of_St._John_the_Baptist","descr":"The head of St. John the Baptist is a tondo painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini. It is now housed in the Civic Museum of Pesaro. The painting depicts the head of the St. John the Baptist just after his decapitation, with blood still dripping from the neck. The perspective from below show the influence of the treatises about perspective representation of the human figure which were being published at the time, such as Piero della Francesca's De prospectiva pingendi. Stylistically, the brilliant colors and the dramatic painting are similar to those of St. Vincent Ferrer Polyptych, the first mature work by Bellini, dated to after 1464."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Shadow_of_Death","descr":"The Shadow of Death is a religious painting by William Holman Hunt, on which he worked from 1870 to 1873, during his second trip to the Holy Land. It depicts Jesus as a young man prior to his ministry, working as a carpenter. He is shown stretching his arms after sawing wood. The shadow of his outstretched arms falls on a wooden spar on which carpentry tools hang, creating a \"shadow of death\" prefiguring the crucifixion. His mother Mary is depicted from behind, gazing up at the shadow, having been looking into a box in which she has kept the gifts given by the Magi. In 1850 Hunt's colleague John Everett Millais had already portrayed Jesus as a budding carpenter, helping his father as a young boy. Millais' painting, Christ in the House of his Parents, had been viciously attacked by critics because of the alleged squalour of the workshop. Hunt repeats many features of Millais's painting, but emphasises Jesus' physical health and muscularity. Hunt's portrayal of Jesus as a hard-working adult craftsman and labourer was also probably influenced by Thomas Carlyle who repeatedly emphasised the spiritual value of honest labour. It also corresponds to the emergence of Muscular Christianity, the view of writers Charles Kingsley, Thomas Hughes and others, who promoted physical strength and health as well as a vigorous pursuit of Christian ideals in personal and political life. Carlyle had strongly criticised Hunt's earlier depiction of Jesus in The Light of the World, identifying it as a \"papistical\" picture because it showed Jesus in regal clothing. The portrayal of Mary's thriftiness (by carefully \"saving\" the gifts) also fits the emphasis on working class financial responsibility promoted by contemporary evangelical publications such as The British Workman. The painting contains detailed typological symbolism, referring to the theological significance of Christ's role and identity. This may be related to Millais's contemporaneous Victory O Lord!. Diarist Francis Kilvert describes a visit to see the painting on display in 1874, the year after its completion. His entry for 27 June 1874 reads, 'I regret to say that against good advice and wise warning I went to see Holman Hunt's picture of the Shadow of Death. It was a waste of a good shilling. I thought the picture theatrical and detestable and wished I had never seen it. ' The painting was a popular success and was widely reproduced as an engraving. The profits made possible the donation of the original to the city of Manchester in 1883. It is now held by Manchester City Art Gallery."},{"label":"DBpedia:Sigismunda_mourning_over_the_Heart_of_Guiscardo","descr":"Sigismunda mourning over the Heart of Guiscardo, fully titled Sigismunda mourning over the Heart of Guiscardo, her murder'd Husband, is an oil painting by British artist William Hogarth. Finished in 1759, it was the principal piece of the eight works he displayed in an exhibition in 1761. It was the final and most ambitious of his attempts to secure for himself a reputation as a genre painter. It depicts a dramatic moment in one of the novelle in Boccaccio's Decameron. While Hogarth had expected this work to be acclaimed as a masterpiece of dramatic painting, the work was met with criticism and ridicule. In the catalogue of the exhibition of Hogarth's works at the Tate Gallery in 2007, the criticism was described as \"some of the most damning critical opprobrium the artist ever suffered\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:Cows_in_the_Meadow","descr":"Cows in the Meadow is an oil painting created in 1883 by Vincent van Gogh. The painting is known only by a very poor photograph."},{"label":"DBpedia:Olympia_(Manet)","descr":"Olympia is an oil on canvas painting by \u00c9douard Manet that caused shock and astonishment when it was first exhibited at the 1865 Paris Salon. Painted in 1863, it measures 130.5 by 190 centimetres (51\u00a0x\u00a074.8\u00a0in). The nation of France acquired the painting in 1890 with a public subscription organized by Claude Monet. It is now in the Mus\u00e9e d'Orsay, Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Bench_(Hogarth)","descr":"The Bench is the title of both a 1758 oil-on-canvas painting by the English artist William Hogarth, and a print issued by him in the same year. Unlike many of Hogarth's engravings produced from painted originals, the print differs considerably from the painting. It was intended as a demonstration of the differences between character painting, caricature and outr\u00e9\u2014developing on the theme he had begun to address in Characters and Caricaturas (his subscription ticket for Marriage \u00e0-la-mode)\u2014but Hogarth was unhappy with the result as it showed only \"characters\", and he continued to work on the piece until his death."},{"label":"DBpedia:Ezekiel's_Vision_(Raphael)","descr":"Ezekiel's Vision is a c. 1518 painting by Raphael showing the prophet Ezekiel's vision of God in majesty. It is housed in the Palatine Gallery of Palazzo Pitti, Florence, central Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Apotheosis_of_Homer_(Ingres)","descr":"The Apotheosis of Homer is a grand 1827 painting by Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres, now exhibited at the Louvre as INV 5417."},{"label":"DBpedia:Saint_Catherine_of_Alexandria_Polyptych","descr":"The Saint Catherine of Alexandria Polyptych (also known as Pisa Polyptych) is a painting by the Italian medieval artist Simone Martini, dating to 1320. Originally placed at the high altar of the church of Santa Caterina in Pisa, it is now housed in the Museo Nazionale di San Matteo of the same city. The work is signed SYMON DE SENIS ME PINXIT in the central panel with the Madonna and Child. Accordin to the original convent's annals, the polyptych was placed at the altar in 1320. It was thus completed by that year, having been likely begun in 1319."},{"label":"DBpedia:Picasso's_Rose_Period","descr":"The Rose Period comes from the time when the style of Pablo Picasso's painting used cheerful orange and pink colours in contrast to the cool, somber tones of the previous Blue Period. The Rose Period lasted from 1904 to 1906. Picasso was happy in his relationship with Fernande Olivier whom he had met in 1904 and this has been suggested as one of the possible reasons he changed his style of painting. Harlequins, circus performers and clowns appear frequently in the Rose Period and populated Picasso's paintings at various stages throughout the rest of his long career. The harlequin, a comedic character usually depicted in checkered patterned clothing, became a personal symbol for Picasso. The Rose Period has been considered French influenced, while the Blue Period more Spanish influenced, although both styles emerged while Picasso was living in Paris. Picasso's Blue Period lasted from late 1901, following the death of his friend Casagemas, and the onset of a bout of major depression. It lasted until 1904, when Picasso's psychological condition improved. The Rose Period is named after Picasso's heavy use of pink tones in his works from this period, from the French word for pink, which is rose. Picasso's highest selling painting, Gar\u00e7on \u00e0 la pipe (Boy with a pipe) was painted during the Rose Period. Other significant Rose Period works include: Woman in a Chemise (Madeleine) (1904\u201305), The Actor (1904\u20131905), Lady with a Fan (1905), Two Youths (1905), Harlequin Family (1905), Harlequin's Family With an Ape (1905), La famille de saltimbanques (1905), Boy with a Dog (1905), Nude Boy (1906), Boy Leading a Horse (1906), and The Girl with a Goat (1906). tt tttPicasso The Actor 1904. JPG ttt L'acteur, 1904 ttt tt tt tttGar\u00e7on \u00e0 la pipe. jpg ttt Gar\u00e7on \u00e0 la pipe, (Boy with a Pipe), 1905 ttt tt tt tttFamily of Saltimbanques. JPG ttt Family of Saltimbanques, 1905 ttt tt The Rose Period was followed by Picasso's somewhat lesser known African influenced period, where his cubism took form. The most famous painting from Picasso's African Period is Les Demoiselles d'Avignon, painted in 1907, which created a sensation among critics and the public when it was exhibited in 1916."},{"label":"DBpedia:Madras_Rouge","descr":"Madras Rouge (The Red Madras Headress) is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1907. The woman depicted is the painter's wife, Am\u00e9lie Noellie Parayre Matisse."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Carlo_de'_Medici","descr":"The Portrait of Carlo de' Medici is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Andrea Mantegna, executed in 1466. It is now housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence."},{"label":"DBpedia:Saint_John_the_Evangelist_(Domenichino)","descr":"Saint John the Evangelist is a painting by the Italian Baroque painter Domenichino."},{"label":"DBpedia:Insane_Woman","descr":"Insane Woman is an 1822 oil on canvas painting by Th\u00e9odore G\u00e9ricault in a series of work G\u00e9ricault did on the mentally insane. It is housed in the Mus\u00e9e des Beaux-Arts de Lyon, France. Mental aberration and irrational states of mind could not fail to interest artists against Enlightenment rationality. G\u00e9ricault, like many of his contemporaries, examined the influence of mental states on the human face and believed, as others did that a face more accurately revealed character, especially in madness and at the moment of death. He made many studies of the inmates in hospitals and institutions for the criminally insane, and he studied the heads of guillotine victims. G\u00e9ricault's Insane Women, her mouth tense, her eyes red rimmed with suffering, is one of several portraits he made of the insane that have a peculiar hypnotic power. These portraits present the physic facts with astonishing authenticity, especially in contrast to earlier idealized commissioned portraiture."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Lorenzo_di_Credi","descr":"The Portrait of Lorenzo di Credi is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Perugino, dating to around 1504 and housed in the National Gallery of Art, Washington, DC, United States."},{"label":"DBpedia:Gettysburg_Cyclorama","descr":"The Battle of Gettysburg, also known as the Gettysburg Cyclorama, is a cyclorama painting by the French artist Paul Philippoteaux depicting \"Pickett's Charge\", the climactic Confederate attack on the Union forces during the Battle of Gettysburg on July 3, 1863. Four versions were painted, two of which are among the last surviving cycloramas in the United States. The first version of the painting, completed in 1883 and originally exhibited in Chicago, was lost for some time. It was rediscovered in 1965 and purchased by a group of North Carolina investors in 2007 for an undisclosed amount. Until November 2005, the second painting, originally exhibited in the Cyclorama Building in Boston, was on display at the Gettysburg National Military Park. It was removed for restoration work and the exhibition was reopened September 2008 in the new Gettysburg Museum and Visitor Center. The third version, exhibited in Philadelphia, is known to have been destroyed. The location of the fourth version, originally exhibited in Brooklyn, is unknown."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Cardinal_Bibbiena_(Raphael)","descr":"The Portrait of Cardinal Bibbiena is a portrait of Cardinal Bernardo Dovizi da Bibbiena by Raphael, painted around 1516 and now in the Palazzo Pitti in Florence. Its rendering appears more rigid than is usual for Raphael, leading some critics to attribute it to one of his pupils or to feel it is possibly a copy from a lost autograph original."},{"label":"DBpedia:Niccolini-Cowper_Madonna","descr":"The Niccolini-Cowper Madonna, also known as the Large Cowper Madonna, is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael, depicting Mary and Child, against a blue sky."},{"label":"DBpedia:Last_Words_of_the_Emperor_Marcus_Aurelius","descr":"The Last Words of the Emperor Marcus Aurelius is an 1844 painting by the French artist Eug\u00e8ne Delacroix, now in the Museum of Fine Arts of Lyon. A preliminary sketch of the painting that was given to Delacroix's student Louis de Planet is also kept in the museum."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Nightmare","descr":"The Nightmare is a 1781 oil painting by Anglo-Swiss artist Henry Fuseli (1741\u20131825). Since its creation, it has remained Fuseli's best-known work. With its first exhibition in 1782 at the Royal Academy of London, the image became famous; an engraved version was widely distributed and the painting was parodied in political satire. Due to its fame, Fuseli painted at least three other versions of the painting. Interpretation of The Nightmare have varied widely. The canvas seems to portray simultaneously a dreaming woman and the content of her nightmare. The incubus and the horse's head refer to contemporary belief and folklore about nightmares, but have been ascribed more specific meanings by some theorists. Contemporary critics were taken aback by the overt sexuality of the painting, which has since been interpreted by some scholars as anticipating Freudian ideas about the unconscious."},{"label":"DBpedia:Girl_Interrupted_at_her_Music","descr":"Girl Interrupted in her Music is a painting by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer. It was painted in the baroque style between the years 1660 and 1661, using oil on canvas. In this painting, Vermeer depicts a young woman at her music with an older gentleman. This painting shows the typical courtship during the 17th century in Europe. It also focuses on the importance of music when it comes to love. The room that they are shown in is one of higher class, most likely belonging to a person of haute bourgeoisie. The painting is very reminiscent of Vermeer\u2019s other works. Girl Interrupted at her Music 300px Artist Johannes Vermeer Year 1660-1661 Type Oil on canvas Dimensions 39,4\u00a0cm \u00d7\u00a044,5\u00a0cm Location Frick Collection, New York City"},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Young_Sailor_II","descr":"The Young Sailor II is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1906."},{"label":"DBpedia:Abraham_Lincoln_(Healy)","descr":"Abraham Lincoln is a 1869 oil-on-canvas painting by George Peter Alexander Healy of Abraham Lincoln, the 16th President of the United States. In the painting, Lincoln is observed alone, leaning forward, with his elbow on his knee and his head resting on his hand. The pose is taken from Healy's 1868 painting, The Peacemakers, which depicts the historic March 28, 1865, strategy session by the Union high command, composed of William Tecumseh Sherman, Ulysses S. Grant, David Dixon Porter, and Lincoln, aboard the steamboat the River Queen during the final days of the American Civil War."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Suzanne_Bloch","descr":"Portrait of Suzanne Bloch is a painting executed by the Spanish artist Pablo Picasso in Paris in 1904, towards the end of his blue period. The subject, Suzanne Bloch, was a singer known for her Wagner interpretations, and the sister of the violinist Henri Bloch."},{"label":"DBpedia:Adoration_of_the_Magi_(Perugino)","descr":"The Adoration of the Magi is a painting by the Italian Renaissance painter Pietro Perugino, housed in the Galleria Nazionale dell'Umbria of Perugia, Italy. According to Italian art historian Vittoria Garibaldi, it was one of the earliest commissions received by Perugino around the end of his apprenticeship in Florence (1472), while others date it to the late 1470s. The painting was originally executed for the church of Santa Maria dei Servi in Perugia, connected to the Baglioni family; in 1543 it was moved to the church of Santa Maria Nuova in the same city."},{"label":"DBpedia:Le_d%C3%A9jeuner_sur_l'herbe","descr":"Le d\u00e9jeuner sur l'herbe (English, \"The Luncheon on the Grass\") \u2013 originally titled Le Bain (The Bath) \u2013 is a large oil on canvas painting by \u00c9douard Manet created in 1862 and 1863. The painting depicts the juxtaposition of a female nude and a scantily dressed female bather on a picnic with two fully dressed men in a rural setting. Rejected by the Salon jury of 1863, Manet seized the opportunity to exhibit this and two other paintings, in the 1863 Salon des Refus\u00e9s, where the painting sparked public notoriety and controversy. The piece is now in the Mus\u00e9e d'Orsay in Paris. A smaller, earlier version can be seen at the Courtauld Gallery, London."},{"label":"DBpedia:Femme_nue_couch%C3%A9e","descr":"Femme nue couch\u00e9e (French: Nude Reclining Woman) is a 1862 painting by French Realist painter Gustave Courbet (1819\u20131877). It depicts a young dark-haired woman reclining on a couch, wearing only a pair of shoes and stockings. Behind her, partly drawn red curtains reveal an overcast sky seen through a closed window. The work is likely influenced by Goya's La maja desnuda. The painting was initially owned by Alexandre Berthier and later by Marcell Nemes. In 1913, it was bought by the Hungarian collector Ferenc Hatvany. At one time, he painted a copy of the painting and, as a practical joke, sent it to be exhibited as the original at a Belgrade exhibition. Together with the rest of Hatvany's collection, the painting was looted from a Budapest bank vault during the 1945 Soviet conquest of the city in World War II. After it was briefly seen attached to the tarpaulin of a Soviet military vehicle on Buda Castle Hill, the painting appeared to have vanished without a trace. It surfaced again in 2000 and 2003, when it was offered for sale first to the Museum of Fine Arts and then to the Commission for Art Recovery (CAR) by a Slovak man claiming to be an antiques dealer, but who appeared to his interlocutors to be involved with the Slovak organised crime scene. The dealer produced an affidavit, judged reliable by the CAR, stating that the painting was given by Soviet soldiers to a doctor from a village near Bratislava in return for his medical treatment of a wounded soldier. An inspection of the picture's craquelure determined that the painting was indeed the original and not Hatvany's copy. After five years of negotiations, Interpol involvement and diplomatic wrangling between the US and Slovakian government, the CAR managed to acquire the painting for Hatvany's heirs in exchange for a USD 300,000 reward. It was shown to the public for the first time since the 1930s in a 2007 Courbet exposition at the Grand Palais in Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:Whaam!","descr":"Whaam! is a 1963 diptych painting by pop artist Roy Lichtenstein. It follows the comic strip-based themes of some of his previous paintings and is part of a body of war-themed work created between 1962 and 1964. It is one of his two notable large war-themed paintings. It was purchased by the Tate Modern in 1966, after being exhibited at the Leo Castelli Gallery in 1963, and has remained in their collection since. Although derived from comics, Lichtenstein made numerous alterations to the work creating two panels from one original which is the subject of significant critical commentary. He also altered the relative significance of the various subjects of the work, both graphical and narrative. It is widely regarded as one of his finest and most notable works."},{"label":"DBpedia:Seven_Saints_(Filippo_Lippi)","descr":"Seven Saints is a tempera on panel painting by the Italian Renaissance master Filippo Lippi, dating to c. 1449-1459 and housed in the National Gallery of London."},{"label":"DBpedia:Congress_Voting_Independence","descr":"Congress Voting Independence is a painting by Robert Edge Pine showing the interior of Independence Hall, Philadelphia, and contains the portraits of most of the signers of the United States Declaration of Independence. The artist worked on the painting from 1784 until his death in 1788. The painting is unfinished. It currently is held in Independence Hall, Philadelphia."},{"label":"DBpedia:Woman_Holding_a_Balance","descr":"Woman Holding a Balance, also called Woman Testing a Balance, is an oil painting by Dutch Baroque artist Johannes Vermeer. At one time the painting, completed 1662-1663, was known as Woman Weighing Gold, but closer evaluation has determined that the balance in her hand is empty. Opinions on the theme and symbolism of the painting differ, with the woman alternatively viewed as a symbol of holiness or earthiness."},{"label":"DBpedia:Star_of_Bethlehem_(painting)","descr":"The Star of Bethlehem is a painting in watercolour by Sir Edward Burne-Jones depicting the Adoration of the Magi with an angel holding the star of Bethlehem. It was commissioned by the Corporation of the City of Birmingham for its new Museum and Art Gallery in 1887, two years after Burne-Jones was elected Honorary President of the Royal Birmingham Society of Artists. At 101 1\/8 x 152\u00a0inches, The Star of Bethlehem was the largest watercolour of the 19th century. It was completed in 1890 and was first exhibited in 1891."},{"label":"DBpedia:Adoration_of_the_Trinity","descr":"Adoration of the Trinity is an oil-on-panel painting by German Renaissance artist Albrecht D\u00fcrer, executed in 1511 and currently housed in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna, Austria."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Basket_of_Bread","descr":"The Basket of Bread is a painting by Spanish surrealist Salvador Dal\u00ed. The painting depicts four pieces of bread with butter on them sitting in a basket. One is separated from the others and is half-bitten. The basket sits on a white cloth. The painting resides at the Salvador Dal\u00ed Museum, St. Petersburg, Florida. The painting was completed in 1926 when Dal\u00ed was twenty-two years old, shortly after he had finished his formal art class in Madrid where he was studying the Dutch Masters. It is among the earliest of several paintings of bread by Dal\u00ed; a later example is Basket of Bread (1945)."},{"label":"DBpedia:Vietnam_(Kanso)","descr":"Vietnam is a mural-size painting made by Nabil Kanso in 1974 in response to the Vietnam War. It is done in oil on canvas measuring 3.65 by 7.30 meters (12 X 24 feet)."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Peasant_Dance","descr":"The Peasant Dance is an oil-on-panel by Flemish renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in c. 1569. It is currently held and exhibited at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna."},{"label":"DBpedia:Madonna_of_Chancellor_Rolin","descr":"The Madonna of Chancellor Rolin is an oil painting by the Early Netherlandish master Jan van Eyck, dating from around 1435. It is on display in the Mus\u00e9e du Louvre, Paris. The work was commissioned by the energetic Nicolas Rolin, chancellor of the Duchy of Burgundy, whose votive portrait takes up the left side of the picture, for his parish church, Notre-Dame-du-Chastel in Autun, where it remained until the church burnt down in 1793. After a period in Autun Cathedral, it was moved to the Louvre in 1805."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Mass_at_Bolsena","descr":"The Mass at Bolsena is a painting by the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. It was painted between 1512 and 1514 as part of Raphael's commission to decorate with frescoes the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the Stanza di Eliodoro, which is named after The Expulsion of Heliodorus from the Temple. The Mass at Bolsena shows an incident that is said to have taken place in 1263. A Bohemian priest who doubted the doctrine of transubstantiation, celebrated mass at Bolsena, where the bread of the eucharist began to bleed. The following year, in 1264, Pope Urban IV instituted the Feast of Corpus Christi to celebrate this miraculous event. Bolsena is north of Rome and the priest who doubted was a German. He was taking mass and when he doubted the Transubstantiation, blood spouted from the host and fell onto the tablecloth in the shape of a cross and he was reconverted. Present in this painting is a self-portrait of the artist, Raphael, as one of the Swiss Guard in the lower right of the fresco. This is one of several instances in which Raphael has placed himself in his paintings. Also shown in the work is Pope Julius II (1443-1513), kneeling at the right, and his daughter Felice della Rovere, shown on the left at the bottom of the steps, in profile, dressed in black."},{"label":"DBpedia:Greece_on_the_Ruins_of_Missolonghi","descr":"Greece on the Ruins of Missolonghi is an 1826 oil painting by French painter Eug\u00e8ne Delacroix, and now preserved at the Mus\u00e9e des Beaux-Arts de Bordeaux. This painting was inspired by the Third Siege of Missolonghi by the Ottoman forces in 1826, during which many people of the city after the long-time siege (almost a year) decided to attempt a mass breakout (sortie) to escape famine and epidemics. The attempt was resulted in a disaster, with the larger part of the Greeks slain."},{"label":"DBpedia:American_Gothic","descr":"American Gothic is a painting by Grant Wood in the collection of the Art Institute of Chicago. Wood's inspiration came from what is now known as the American Gothic House, and a decision to paint the house along with \"the kind of people I fancied should live in that house. \" The painting shows a farmer standing beside his spinster daughter. The figures were modeled by the artist's sister and their dentist. The woman is dressed in a colonial print apron evoking 19th-century Americana, and the couple are in the traditional roles of men and women, the man's pitchfork symbolizing hard labor, and the flowers over the woman's right shoulder suggesting domesticity. It is one of the most familiar images in 20th-century American art, and one of the most parodied artworks within American popular culture."},{"label":"DBpedia:L'Enseigne_de_Gersaint","descr":"L'Enseigne de Gersaint, or \"Gersaint's Shopsign\", (1720) is a painting by Jean-Antoine Watteau, which is considered to be his last masterpiece. It was painted as a shop sign for the marchand-mercier, or art dealer, Edme Fran\u00e7ois Gersaint. According to Daniel Roche the sign functioned more as an advertisement for the artist than the dealer. The painting exaggerates the size of Gersaint's cramped boutique, hardly more than a permanent booth with a little backshop, on the medieval Pont Notre-Dame, in the heart of Paris, both creating and following fashion as he purveyed works of art and luxurious trifles to an aristocratic clientele."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Spanish_Singer","descr":"The Spanish Singer is a 1860 painting by the French painter \u00c9douard Manet, conserved since 1949 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art of New York. It was composed in Manet's studio and used a model and props which were later used for at least another painting. The work is both realistic and exotic and shows the influence of Spanish art, especially that of Diego Vel\u00e1zquez, on Manet's style. The painting allowed Manet to be accepted for the first time at the Salon of Paris in 1861, where he also exhibited a portrait of his parents. The Spanish Singer received positive criticism at the time and won a decent mention. It was appreciated by French writer Charles Baudelaire, and by French journalist and literary critic Theophile Gautier, who praised the painting for its \"very true color\" and \"vigorous brush\". This painting helped Manet become the leader of the avant-garde movement and inspired a group of young artists, including Henri Fantin-Latour and Carolus-Duran, who decided to visit Manet's studio."},{"label":"DBpedia:Boy_Carrying_a_Sword","descr":"Boy Carrying a Sword is an 1861 oil painting by the French artist \u00c9douard Manet and now displayed at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. The work shows a small boy costumed as a page of the Spanish court of the seventeenth century and holding a full-sized sword and sword belt. The work was later reproduced as an engraving under the direction of Dijon painter and etcher Alphonse Legros, who collaborated in the work. According to \u00c9mile Zola, the work is typical of the influence of Spanish painters and shows the strong influence Diego Vel\u00e1zquez and Frans Hals had on Manet at the time. The artist's model was Leon Leenhoff, the stepson of the artist after his marriage to Suzanne in 1862."},{"label":"DBpedia:Madonna_with_the_Long_Neck","descr":"The Madonna of the Long Neck (Italian: Madonna dal collo lungo), also known as Madonna and Child with Angels and St. Jerome, is an Italian Mannerist oil painting by the painter Parmigianino, dating from c. 1535-1540 and depicting Madonna and Child with angels. The painting was begun in 1534 for the church of the Servites in Parma, but remained incomplete on Parmigianino's death in 1540. Ferdinand III, Grand Duke of Tuscany purchased it in 1798 and it has been on display at the Uffizi since 1948."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Potato_Eaters","descr":"The Potato Eaters is a painting by the Dutch painter Vincent van Gogh which he painted in April 1885 while in Nuenen, Netherlands. It is in the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam. The version at the Kr\u00f6ller-M\u00fcller Museum in Otterlo is a preliminary oil sketch, and he also made a version as a lithograph. In 1885 van Gogh made several versions of the Potato Eaters. During March and the beginning of April 1885 he sketched studies for the painting, and corresponded with his brother Theo, who was not impressed with his current work or the sketches Van Gogh sent him in Paris. He worked on the painting from April 13 until the beginning of May, when it was mostly done except for minor changes which he made with a small brush later the same year. Van Gogh said he wanted to depict peasants as they really were. He deliberately chose coarse and ugly models, thinking that they would be natural and unspoiled in his finished work: \"You see, I really have wanted to make it so that people get the idea that these folk, who are eating their potatoes by the light of their little lamp, have tilled the earth themselves with these hands they are putting in the dish, and so it speaks of manual labor and \u2014 that they have thus honestly earned their food. I wanted it to give the idea of a wholly different way of life from ours \u2014 civilized people. So I certainly don\u2019t want everyone just to admire it or approve of it without knowing why. \" Writing to his sister Willemina two years later in Paris, Van Gogh still considered The Potato Eaters his most successful painting: \"What I think about my own work is that the painting of the peasants eating potatoes that I did in Nuenen is after all the best thing I did\". However, the work was criticized by his friend Anthon van Rappard soon after it was painted. This was a blow to van Gogh's confidence as an emerging artist, and he wrote back to his friend, \"you... had no right to condemn my work in the way you did\" (July 1885), and later, \"I am always doing what I can't do yet in order to learn how to do it. \" (August 1885)."},{"label":"DBpedia:Spirit_of_Indiana","descr":"Spirit of Indiana is a public artwork by American artist Eugene Francis Savage, located in the Indiana State House, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. The mural is 21 feet high by 41.5 feet wide, oil on linen canvas. It was commissioned in 1961 and installation was finished in 1964."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Trial_(painting)","descr":"The Trial (1947) is a painting by the Australian painter Sidney Nolan. This painting depicts Ned Kelly's trial, where Kelly is depicted in handcuffs. A judge and several people look at him in the court. The painting is one of a number by Nolan to use enamel paint, usually Ripolin, a commercial paint not intended for art (and nothing to do with true vitreous enamel). Nolan painted the picture at Heide at Bulleen, Victoria, the home of John Reed and his wife, Sunday. Sunday Reed may have helped paint the floor of this painting. She supported Nolan while he painted the Kelly series. This painting is currently in the National Gallery of Australia. The painting was donated by Sunday Reed. Nolan had left the painting among many others at Heide. Although Nolan once wrote to Sunday Reed to tell her to take what she wanted, he subsequently demanded all his works back. Sunday Reed returned 284 other paintings and drawings to Nolan, but she refused to give up the 27 remaining Kellys, partly because she saw the works as fundamental to the proposed Heide Museum of Modern Art. Eventually, she gave them to the National Gallery of Australia in 1977 and this resolved the dispute. In 1973, Nolan reproduced The Trial on a woven wool tapestry, which was lent to Admiralty House in Kirribilli, the official Sydney residence of the Governor-General of Australia. The tapestry was Sir John Kerr's favourite backdrop when making televised addresses. It is now located at the Federal Court of Australia in Sydney."},{"label":"DBpedia:Leda_Atomica","descr":"Leda Atomica is a painting by Salvador Dal\u00ed, made in 1949. The picture depicts Leda, the mythological queen of Sparta, with the swan. Leda is a frontal portrait of Dal\u00ed's wife, Gala, who is seated on a pedestal with a swan suspended behind and to her left. Different objects such as a book, a set square, two stepping stools and an egg float around the main figure. In the background on both sides the rocks of Cap Norfeu, (located on the Costa Brava in Catalonia, between Roses and Cadaqu\u00e9s intend to define the location of the image. The painting is exhibited in the Dal\u00ed Theatre and Museum in Figueres."},{"label":"DBpedia:Burial_of_St._Lucy_(Caravaggio)","descr":"Burial of Saint Lucy is a painting by the Italian artist Caravaggio. It is located in the church of Santa Lucia alla Badia located on the Piazza Duomo in Syracuse, Sicily."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Wine_Glass","descr":"The Wine Glass (Dutch: Het glas wijn, also known as The Glass of Wine or Lady and Gentleman Drinking Wine) is a painting by the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer that portrays a seated woman and a standing man drinking in an interior setting. The painting is in the Gem\u00e4ldegalerie, Berlin. The work is, in many aspects, typical of the genre painting of the Delft School developed by Pieter de Hooch in the late 1650s. It contains figures situated in a brightly lit and spacious interior, while its architectural space is highly defined. In addition, the work's figures are set in the middle ground, rather than positioned in the foreground."},{"label":"DBpedia:Honeysuckle_Bower","descr":"The Honeysuckle Bower (ca. 1609) is a self-portrait of the Flemish Baroque painter Peter Paul Rubens and his first wife Isabella Brant. They wed on 3 October 1609, in St. Michael's Abbey in Antwerp, shortly after he had returned to the city after eight years in Italy. The painting is a full-length double portrait of the couple seated in a bower of honeysuckle. They are surrounded by love and marriage symbolism: the honeysuckle and garden are both traditional symbols of love, and the holding of right hands (junctio dextrarum) represents union through marriage. Additionally, Rubens depicts himself as an aristocratic gentleman with his left hand on the hilt of his sword."},{"label":"DBpedia:Bonaparte,_First_Consul","descr":"Bonaparte, First Consul (Bonaparte, Premier Consul) is an 1804 portrait of Napoleon Bonaparte as First Consul by Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres. The painting is now in the collection of the Curtius Museum in Li\u00e8ge."},{"label":"DBpedia:Vanity_(Titian)","descr":"Vanity is an oil painting by Italian late Renaissance painter Titian, dated to around 1515 and now held at the Alte Pinakothek in Munich, Germany."},{"label":"DBpedia:Artemisia_(Rembrandt)","descr":"Artemisia Receiving Mausolus' Ashes (also known as Sophonisba Receiving the Poisoned Cup) is a painting by the Dutch master Rembrandt. It is housed in the Museo del Prado of Madrid, Spain. It is signed \"REMBRANDT F: 1634\". The subject of the picture is still unclear. It portrays a young woman, variously identified as Sophonisba or Artemisia, or a generic queen due to her jewels and rich garments, receiving a cup from a maiden. The cup would contain the ashes of Artemisia's husband, King Mausolus, or, in the case of Sophonisba, the poison which killed her. For the woman, Rembrandt probably used his wife Saskia as model."},{"label":"DBpedia:Three_Graces_(Raphael)","descr":"The Three Graces is an oil painting by Italian painter Raphael, housed in the Mus\u00e9e Cond\u00e9 of Chantilly, France. The date of origin has not been positively determined, though it seems to have been painted at some point after his arrival to study with Pietro Perugino in about 1500, possibly 1503-1505. According to James Patrick in 2007's Renaissance and Reformation, the painting represents the first time that Raphael had depicted the nude female form in front and back views."},{"label":"DBpedia:Cardsharps_(Caravaggio)","descr":"The Cardsharps (painted around 1594) is a painting by the Italian Baroque artist Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio."},{"label":"DBpedia:Luncheon_of_the_Boating_Party","descr":"Luncheon of the Boating Party is a painting by French impressionist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. It was purchased from the artist by the dealer-patron Paul Durand-Ruel and bought in 1923 (for $125,000) from his son by Duncan Phillips. It is currently housed in The Phillips Collection in Washington, D.C. It shows a richness of form, a fluidity of brush stroke, and a flickering light."},{"label":"DBpedia:Niccoline_Chapel","descr":"The Niccoline Chapel is a chapel in the Apostolic Palace in Vatican City. It is especially notable for its fresco paintings by Fra Angelico (1447\u20131451) and his assistants, who may have executed much of the actual work. The name is derived from its patron, Pope Nicholas V, who had it built for use as his private chapel. The chapel is located in the Tower of Innocent III, in the most ancient part of the Apostolic Palace. The walls were decorated by Fra Angelico with images of two of the earliest Christian martyrs; the upper level has Episodes from the Life of St. Stephen, and the lower one Scenes from the life of St. Laurence. The vault is painted blue, decorated with stars, and features figures of the Four Evangelists in the corners. The pilasters are decorated with the eight Doctors of the Church. Fra Angelico depicted a Deposition of Christ (the removal of Christ from the Cross) on the wall behind the altar, but it has been destroyed. However, his other works in the lunettes are well preserved. The scenes of St. Stephen follow the Golden Legend, while those of St. Laurence are patterned after the older cycles in the basilica of San Lorenzo fuori le Mura, where he is buried. Stephen was a Greek-speaking Jew, one of the first deacons named in Jerusalem by St. Peter - Ordination of St Stephen with St Stephen distributing Alms (lunette). His prayers (The Prayer of St. Stephen) earned him the hostility of his opponents in the city, who eventually stoned him to death in front of the city gate. Laurence was a deacon (Ordination of St Laurence) to whom Pope Sixtus II had entrusted the Church's treasure in order to give it to the Roman emperor Valerian (St. Lawrence Receiving the Treasures of the Church). Lawrence instead divided it among the poor (St Laurence distributing Alms), an act for which he was martyred. The frescoes underline the similarities in the lives of the two figures: both were ordained deacons, both gave alms to the poor and both were martyred after a courageous declaration of faith. The choice of the two saints also shows the connection between the Churches of Jerusalem and the Rome. The frescoes, full of fine architectural details, allude also to Nicholas V's desire to rebuild Rome as the new capital city of Christianity. The large walls in the Martyrdom of St. Stephen hint at the rebuilding of Rome's walls. Further, the schism in the Jewish community in Jerusalem can be compared to the Christian schism witnessed by Nicholas (who is portrayed in the frescoes as Pope Sixtus II)."},{"label":"DBpedia:Quadrato_di_Villafranca","descr":"Il Quadrato di Villafranca or Esercitazione di tiro is a painting by Giovanni Fattori created in 1876\u20131880 depicting a scene of the Battle of Custoza (1866). The painting belonged to the Stramezzi collection of Crema and is published in the catalogue of Giovanni Malesci (Ed. De Agostini, Novara) al n\u00b0 175 with the title \u201cEsercitazione di Tiro\u201d. The painting has been exhibited at the Macchiaioli exhibition organized by the Board of the Gallery of Modern Art of Florence in 1956, at the Montecatini exhibition in 1986 and at the Mole Antonelliana in Turin in 1986."},{"label":"DBpedia:Lamentation_of_Christ_(Rogier_van_der_Weyden)","descr":"The Lamentation of Christ is an oil-on-panel painting by the Netherlandish artist Rogier van der Weyden, dating from around 1460-1463 and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence, Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:Flower_of_the_Fields","descr":"Flower of the Fields is an 1845 painting on wood by Lyon artist Louis Janmot. It was acquired in 1893 by the Mus\u00e9e des Beaux-Arts de Lyon where it has been conserved. The painting shows a young woman who is sitting in the nature, surrounded with flowers and butterflies. She has two flower bouquets in her hands: one laid down on her knees, composed of buttercups, daisies and cornflowers, the other one held vertically is composed of poppies. In the background, the landscape shows a verdant plains and the mountains of the Bugey region. The sky is blue, with some white clouds near the mountains, and indicates that the scene probably takes place in the late afternoon. Each flower, as well as the woman's face, are painted with an extremely accuracy, the colors used are sweet and some melancholy emanates from the scene. The look of the young woman seems to contain a hint of seriousness. The painting was notably exhibited at the Paris Salon in 1845 and at the Exposition Universelle (1855), also in Paris, among other exhibitions. It was restored in 1974. Larousse Encyclopedia describes this work as \"well-balanced\". However, it is unclear if the painting is the portrait of a woman known by Janmot, but the clothes she wears do not comply with her time, but recall the portraits of the Italian Renaissance. This may be a painting of flowers, as this type of art was very popular in Lyon in the 19th century. But perhaps the young woman is she the goddess Flora and is a thought about the transience of time."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Cornell_Farm","descr":"The Cornell Farm (1848) is an oil on canvas landscape by Edward Hicks. It was acquired by the National Gallery of Art in 1964. The picture depicts the farmland and cattle of Pennsylvanian James Cornell. Hicks's inscription along the bottom of the picture reads: \"An Indian summer view of the Farm & Stock OF JAMES C. CORNELL of Northampton Bucks county Pennsylvania. That took the Premium in the Agricultural society, October the 12, 1848 Painted by E. Hicks in the 69th year of his age. \" The work has been exhibited frequently, with its first display at the Bucks County Bi-Centennial Celebration, Doylestown, Pennsylvania, in 1882. The NGA writes, \"Having no background in academic art, Hicks employed the direct approach of a primitive or folk painter. The horizontal band of livestock across the foreground, although childlike in its simplicity, clearly presents each prize-winning animal as an individual portrait. Hicks' delight in creating ornamental pattern is evident in the arrangement of fences, while the rich red and bright white of the house and barn symmetrically flank this central landscape. Although the stark silhouettes of figures and buildings seem naive, Hicks softly blended his paints over the orchard to give the impression of space existing well beyond what the eye can see.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:The_First_Days_of_Spring","descr":"The First Days of Spring (1929) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dal\u00ed. This is probably the most famous example of Dal\u00ed's early surrealist work. The setting for this image is an expansive, smooth gray plane. It is elevated on the right and steps down to a lower level at the left. Clustered in the middle of this space is a variety of strange and colorful surrealist images. In the distance is the small shadowy figures of a man holding the hand of a small boy. Toward the left is a figure seated in a chair with his back turned to the entire scene. This work was created during a time of extreme personal stress for Dal\u00ed. His father was becoming increasingly disappointed with his son's choice of profession and unorthodox behavior. The figures of the man and boy appear several times in Dal\u00ed's future works. They represent Dali's wish to heal his relationship with his father. The seated figure on the left has also been speculated to represent the artist's father."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Feast_of_Saint_Nicholas","descr":"The Feast of Saint Nicholas, is a painting by Dutch master Jan Steen, which can now be found in the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam. It measures 82 x 70.5\u00a0cm. The picture, painted in the chaotic Jan Steen \"style,\" depicts a family at home on December 5, the night celebrated in the Netherlands as the Feast of Saint Nicholas, or Sinterklaas. The focal point of the painting is the youngest daughter of the family, a golden-child, painted, in fact, in a golden smock and showing golden locks. She has behaved all year, and Saint Nicholas has rewarded her by stuffing her shoe with a doll and other treats, which she carries in her bucket. She is in stark contrast to her elder brother, standing to her right, who is sobbing, while another brother looks on, laughing. Apparently, the elder brother has been naughty, and his shoe, held up by an elder sister behind him, was left empty. Still there is hope for the sobbing boy. Hidden in the background, almost obscured by the draperies, his grandmother seems to beckon to him\u2014perhaps she is hiding a gift for him too, behind the heavy curtains. While the mother attempts to coax the golden girl to show her the gifts she received, the father, seated in the center of the painting, seems to smile as he remembers his own childhood on this festive night. Further to the right a child can be seen holding a baby and pointing up the chimney, while a younger child looks on in amazement, as he has probably just been told that this was Sinterklaas' method of gaining entry to the house."},{"label":"DBpedia:Deliverance_of_Saint_Peter","descr":"The Liberation of Saint Peter is a fresco painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael and his assistant Giulio Romano. It was painted in 1514 as part of Raphael's commission to decorate with frescoes the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the Stanza di Eliodoro, which is named after The Expulsion of Heliodorus from the Temple. The painting shows how Saint Peter was liberated from Herod's prison by an angel, as described in Acts 12. It is technically an overdoor, probably the most majestic ever painted. The fresco shows three scenes in symmetrical balance formed by the feigned architecture and stairs. In the centre the angel wakes Peter, and on the right guides him past the sleeping guards. On the left side one guard has apparently noticed the light generated by the angel and wakes a comrade, pointing up to the miraculously illumined cell. This adds drama to the serene exit of Peter at the right."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_a_Young_Man_(Masaccio)","descr":"Portrait of a Young Man is a painting attributed to the Italian Renaissance painter Masaccio, although this attribution is disputed. The subject of this painting is wearing a chaperon."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Cemetery","descr":"The Cemetery is an 1877 painting by Swedish artist Carl Fredrik Hill. The painting is currently on display at the Malm\u00f6 Art Museum in Sweden. In the late fall of 1877 Hill suffered from a tense situation where he hovered between arrogance and deepest despair. The contact with the outside world, with his comrades, became less and less. His studio door in Paris was shut. In his Christmas letters to his family in Sweden from 1877 Hill recounts the motifs that had occupied him, as well as those he wanted to paint in the future, including a cemetery with a man standing in front of a cross adorned with a wreath. A picture of the deepest sorrow and desolation. The lone figure's total isolation from the outside world is a dramatic and desperate moment. The painting was painted shortly before the artist's collapse. It belonged to one of the 18 paintings that Hill wanted to show at the World Exhibition in Paris in 1878."},{"label":"DBpedia:%C3%89tant_donn%C3%A9s","descr":"\u00c9tant donn\u00e9s is Marcel Duchamp's last major art work which surprised most of the art world who believed he'd given up art for chess almost 25 years earlier. It is a tableau, visible only through a pair of peep holes (one for each eye) in a wooden door, of a nude woman lying on her back with her face hidden and legs spread holding a gas lamp in the air in one hand against a landscape backdrop. Duchamp worked secretly on the piece from 1946 to 1966 in his Greenwich Village studio. It is composed of an old wooden door, bricks, velvet, twigs, a female form made of parchment, glass, linoleum, an assortment of lights, a landscape composed of hand-painted and photographed elements and an electric motor housed in a cookie tin which rotates a perforated disc. Sculptor Maria Martins, Duchamp's girlfriend from 1946 to 1951, served as the model for the female figure in the piece, and his second wife, Alexina (Teeny), served as the model for the figure's arm. Duchamp prepared a \"Manual of Instructions\" in a 4-ring binder explaining and illustrating how to assemble and disassemble the piece. The piece was created with the intention of having it displayed at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. Anne d'Harnoncourt, a young curator at the time and future director of the museum, orchestrated the acquisition and transfer of the piece to Philadelphia. According to the artist's wishes, it wasn't until 1969, after Duchamp's death in 1968, that the Philadelphia Museum of Art revealed the tableau to the public."},{"label":"DBpedia:Die_gro%C3%9Fe_Nacht_im_Eimer","descr":"(The Big Night Down The Drain) is a painting by Georg Baselitz. It was painted in the years 1962\u20131963 and hangs today in the Museum Ludwig in Cologne, Germany. One interpretation is that the painting shows a boy after masturbating, while another is that it depicts a hideous dwarf with a penis of grotesque size. In both cases, the focus of the painting is sex, and Baselitz's primary objective was to shock his audience. Baselitz said he used the erect organ \"as an aggressive act or shock\", and it was this attitude the genitals represent that was offensive. In October 1963, the work, as well as the picture Der nackte Mann, shown in the West Berlin gallery Werner & Katz, was seized by the public prosecutor's office because of immorality. The criminal proceedings ended in 1965 with the return of the pictures."},{"label":"DBpedia:Chop_Suey_(painting)","descr":"Chop Suey is a painting by Edward Hopper which portrays two women in conversation at a restaurant. According to some art scholars, one \"striking detail of Chop Suey is that its female subject faces her doppelg\u00e4nger. \" Others have pointed out it would not be so unusual for two women to be wearing similar hats, and that it is presumptuous to claim doppelg\u00e4ngers when one of subject's face is not visible to the viewer. The painting has an interior subject matter, being inside of a cafe and not specifying on any one given figure. As with many of Hopper's works, the painting features a close attention to the effects of light on his subjects. A similar painting, Composition I was completed by Mark Rothko in 1931. A bumper played on the cable channel Turner Classic Movies, titled The Sunny Side of Life, was inspired by Chop Suey and other Hopper paintings."},{"label":"DBpedia:Grotto_in_the_Gulf_of_Salerno","descr":"Grotto in the Gulf of Salerno is the subject of at least 4 paintings completed by Joseph Wright of Derby following his visit there in 1774. The picture show the different lighting at different times of the day."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Isaak_Abrahamsz._Massa","descr":"Portrait of Isaak Abrahamsz. Massa is a 1626 painting by Frans Hals that is in the collection of the Art Gallery of Ontario. It depicts Isaac Massa, a prosperous merchant and a close friend of Hals. Massa was the subject of an earlier work by Hals \u2013 ' \u2013 which also featured his wife. Massa would commission another portrait by Hals in 1635. The painting is inscribed with the date 1626, but there is no mention of the identity of the sitter. For many years this led to debate, and it was often assumed to be a self-portrait. Wilhelm Valentiner was a noted proponent of this theory. Other scholars, such as Numa S. Trivas, did advance the idea that it was a portrait of Massa, and this was confirmed by the discovery of an inscription on a 17th-century engraving. The 1626 portrait is noted for its informality and vitality. Massa appears leaning over the back of a chair, a significant departure from standard formal portrait poses of the period. Hals would later use similar poses in a number of other paintings, and it would also be employed by other artists in later centuries. Massa\u2019s expression is candid, distracted. He is relaxed and engaged in his own affairs. Hals\u2019s brush strokes too are quick and free instead of smooth and controlled, which not only contributes to Hals\u2019s distinct style but also allowed him to complete an entire painting in one sitting, which accounts for the high volume he produced in his lifetime. Many of Hals\u2019s contemporaries were students of Caravaggio, influenced by his strong chiaroscuro. Though Hals may also have looked to Caravaggio his use of light is even, but Hals still manages to create bold highlights of Massa\u2019s facial features \u2013 the right side of his face is illuminated while the left falls into a natural shadow. Massa had made his fortune as a silk merchant in Russia, and was a noted expert on the country. The view through the window of large coniferous trees may be intended to reflect this, it being a scene of Muscovy where much of Massa's trading was conducted. The landscape in the background may have not been painted by Hals, perhaps being the work of noted landscape artist Pieter de Molijn. In Massa's hand he holds a sprig of holly. In traditional symbolism this represents friendship and constancy, and may reflect the close relationship between the artist and subject. It has also been interpreted as Massa's pledge to be faithful to his wife during his long absences. For many years the painting was part of the collection of the Earls of Spencer. The 1822 Bibliotheca Spenceriana, a catalogue of the Spencer collection, describes it as hanging in one of the bedrooms of the estate. In 1924 the 7th Earl Spencer was forced to sell off part of the family collection to pay down debts. He sold the Hals, along with other works to art merchant Joseph Duveen. The next year Duveen sold the painting to Canadian businessman Frank P. Wood. Upon Wood's death in 1955 his collection was given to the Art Gallery of Ontario, which is where the portrait still resides. In 1959 the painting was stolen from the gallery, along with five other masterworks. The insurance company agreed to pay a ransom for the stolen pictures, and three weeks after disappearing the painting was recovered from a storage room in Parkdale. It had sustained only slight damage. tt tttFrans Hals 056. jpg ttt Hals' marriage portrait of Isaac Massa en Beatrix van der Laen, 1622. ttt tt tt tttFrans Hals 068. jpg ttt Portrait of unknown man, assumed to be Isaac Massa later in life, showing change in painting style by Hals in his old age, with looser brushwork, 1665."},{"label":"DBpedia:A_Young_Woman_Seated_at_the_Virginals","descr":"A Young Woman Seated at the Virginals, also known as Young Woman Seated at the Virginals and A Young Woman Seated at a Virginal, is a painting some attribute to the Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer. It is thought to date from 1670 to 1672 and is now in a private collection in New York. The painting's title is close to that of another Vermeer work, sometimes called \"Young Woman Seated at a Virginal\" (which itself has an alternate title, \"Lady Seated at a Virginal\") at the National Gallery, London. Until recently the work was little known. It was determined to be a Vermeer painting through technical examination and passages of painting very similar to those in Vermeer's \"Lady Seated at a Virginal\" in The National Gallery, London, although the yellow shawl may have been painted by another artist. It is on loan to the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, from January to September 2012."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Queen_Christina_of_Denmark","descr":"Portrait of Queen Christina of Denmark is late work of the Italian Renaissance master Titian, painted in 1555-1556 as an oil on canvas and now housed in the National Museum of Serbia of Belgrade, Serbia. This painting was part of collection of Mary of Hungary (1505\u20131558)) already in 1556. Before the World War II was part of Contini Bonacossi Collection. In National Museum of Serbia is from 1949."},{"label":"DBpedia:Cafe_Gurzuf_(painting)","descr":"Cafe Gurzuf is a painting by Alexander Nikolayevich Samokhvalov (Russian: \u0410\u043b\u0435\u043a\u0441\u0430\u0301\u043d\u0434\u0440 \u041d\u0438\u043a\u043e\u043b\u0430\u0301\u0435\u0432\u0438\u0447 \u0421\u0430\u043c\u043e\u0445\u0432\u0430\u0301\u043b\u043e\u0432)(1894-1971), well-known Russian painter, watercolorists, graphic artist, illustrator, and art teacher, Honored Arts Worker of the RSFSR, lived and worked in Leningrad, regarded as one of the founder and brightest representatives of the Socialist realism art. In the painting artist has depicted a view of summer cafe in Gurzuf, Crimea, in the middle of the 1950s."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Death_of_Hyacinthos","descr":"The Death of Hyacinthos, sometimes referred to as The Death of Hyacinth, was completed by Jean Broc in 1801. It presently belongs in the collection of Poitiers and is often displayed at the Mus\u00e9e Rupert de Chi\u00e8vres. This is Broc's most famous work and is considered to be drawn from the Metamorphoses by Ovid. It is a depiction of the dead Hyacinthos cradled by his lover, the Greek god Apollo. In front of them is the discus which caused Hyacinth's death, which was thrown by Apollo himself. The discus had been blown off course by the wind Zephyros, who was also in love with young Hyacinthos and was jealous of Apollo. From Hayacinthos' blood sprang the Hyacinth flower which bears his name."},{"label":"DBpedia:Agony_in_the_Garden_(Bellini)","descr":"The Agony in the Garden is an early painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, who painted it around 1459-65. It is in the National Gallery, London. It portrays Christ kneeling on the Mount of Olives in prayer, with his disciples Peter, James and John sleeping near to him. The picture is closely related to the similar work by Bellini's brother-in-law, Andrea Mantegna, also in the National Gallery. It is likely that both derived from a drawing by Bellini's father, Jacopo. In Bellini's version, the treatment of dawn light has a more important role in giving the scene a quasi-unearthly atmosphere. Until the mid-19th century Early Renaissance paintings were regarded as curiosities by most collectors. This one had probably belonged to Consul Smith in Venice (d. 1770), was bought by William Beckford at the Joshua Reynolds sale in 1795 for \u00a35, then sold in 1823 with Fonthill Abbey and repurchased by Beckford at the Fonthill Sale the next year for \u00a352.10s. It was bought by the National Gallery for \u00a3630 in 1863, still a low price for the day."},{"label":"DBpedia:Shepherd_with_a_Flute","descr":"Shepherd with a flute is a painting produced around 1508 by Giorgione, now in the Royal Collection and shown at Hampton Court Palace."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Gypsy_Madonna","descr":"The Gypsy Madonna is an oil painting, circa 1510, by Titian. It was once in the collection of Archduke Leopold Wilhelm of Austria and is now in the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna."},{"label":"DBpedia:Rouen_Cathedral_(Monet)","descr":"The Rouen Cathedral series was painted in the 1890s by French impressionist Claude Monet. The paintings in the series each capture the fa\u00e7ade of the cathedral at different times of the day and year, and reflect changes in its appearance under different lighting conditions."},{"label":"DBpedia:Prostitution_in_Spain","descr":"Prostitution in Spain is not addressed by any specific law, but a number of activities related to it such as pimping are illegal."},{"label":"DBpedia:St._Sebastian_(Raphael)","descr":"St. Sebastian is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance artist Raphael, circa 1501-1502. Part of his early works, it is housed in the Accademia Carrara of Bergamo, Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:Notre-Dame,_une_fin_d'apr%C3%A8s-midi","descr":"Notre-Dame, une fin d'apr\u00e8s-midi (\"A Glimpse of Notre-Dame in the Late Afternoon\") is a painting by Henri Matisse from 1902. Its somber coloration is typical of Matisse's works executed between the end of 1901 and the end of 1903, a period of personal difficulties for the artist. This episode has been called Matisse's Dark Period. Between 1896 and 1901, Matisse's painting had progressed from the subdued tones of his earliest works to an intense colorism that prefigured the Fauvism to come. In 1896 and 1897 he had traveled to Brittany, where the Australian painter John Peter Russell encouraged him to paint en plein air. Through Russell he met Camille Pissarro, whose influence was decisive in making a colorist of Matisse. In 1898 he traveled to London, where he studied the works of J. M. W. Turner; then, after a year spent in Corsica and Toulouse, he returned to Paris, where the startling boldness of his work was admired by other young artists. His paintings found few buyers, however, and his wife, Am\u00e9lie, had to open a dress shop to support their household. In May 1902 a major financial scandal, the Humbert Affair, unexpectedly ensnared Am\u00e9lie's family. Her mother was the Humbert family's housekeeper, and both she and her husband became scapegoats in the scandal. As a result, Matisse was forced to spend much of his time during the next year dealing with lawyers and journalists. His studio was searched by detectives, and his wife's family was menaced by angry mobs of fraud victims. According to art historian Hilary Spurling, \"their public exposure, followed by the arrest of his father-in-law, left Matisse as the sole breadwinner for an extended family of seven. This is why he switched to painting canvases that were at least potentially saleable\". Inspired by Rodin and Barye, Matisse struggled to master volume in sculpture as well as in painting. He darkened his palette, with the results seen in the present work, and in such paintings as Carmelina (1903, in the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston). The medium is oil on paper mounted on canvas and it measures 72.5 \u00d7 54.5\u00a0cm (28\u00bd \u00d7 21\u00bd in). The painting is in the Albright-Knox Art Gallery, Buffalo, New York."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Love_Letter_(Vermeer)","descr":"The Love Letter is a 17th-century genre painting by Jan Vermeer. The painting shows a servant maid handing a letter to a young woman with a cittern. The painting is in the Rijksmuseum Amsterdam. The tied-up curtain in the foreground creates the impression that the viewer is looking at an intensely private, personal scene. There is also an element of trompe l'oeil as Dutch paintings were often hung with little curtains to conserve them, and the device of painted curtains is seen in other Dutch works of the period. The diagonals on the chequered floor create the impression of depth and three-dimensionality. The fact that it is a love letter that the woman has received is made clear by the fact that she is carrying a lute (more specifically, a cittern, a member of the lute\/guitar family). The lute was a symbol of love - often carnal love; luit was also a slang term for vagina. This idea is further reinforced by the slippers at the very bottom of the picture. The removed slipper was another symbol of sex. The floor brush would appear to represent domesticity, and its placement at the side of the painting may suggest that domestic concerns have been forgotten or pushed aside. The colors blue and gold are important in the composition of the painting - the gold is located on the woman's dress, the top of the fireplace, and many of the objects, which complements the blue on the floor, the maid's dress, the picture frames, etc. , Classical influence is also apparent in the ionic columns of the fireplace. The two paintings on the wall are also significant. The lower painting is of a stormy sea, a clear metaphor for tempestuous love. Above it is a landscape painting of a traveler on a sandy road. This may refer to the absence of the man who is writing to the lady."},{"label":"DBpedia:Valle_Romita_Polyptych","descr":"The Valle Romita Polyptych is a painting by the Italian late Gothic painter Gentile da Fabriano, dating from c. 1410-1412 and now housed in the Pinacoteca di Brera in Milan. It was originally executed for the Franciscan hermitage of Valle Romita near Gentile's birthplace, Fabriano."},{"label":"DBpedia:Madonna_del_Parto","descr":"The Madonna del Parto (\"Madonna of Pregnancy\") is the name of an iconic depiction of the Virgin Mary shown as pregnant, which was developed in Italy, mainly in Tuscany in the 14th century. Examples include works by Taddeo Gaddi, Bernardo Daddi and Nardo di Cione. The Madonna was portrayed standing, alone, often with a closed book on her belly, an allusion to the embodied Word. The works were associated with the devotions of pregnant women, praying for a safe delivery. Sometimes, as with a statue by Sansovino in the Basilica of Sant'Agostino in Rome, the depiction is of a Virgin and Child, but known as a Madonna del Parto because it was especially associated with devotions over pregnancy. Here the Virgin wears the Girdle of Thomas, a belt of knotted cloth cord that was a relic held in Prato Cathedral, which many depictions wear."},{"label":"DBpedia:Landscape_with_the_Ashes_of_Phocion","descr":"Landscape with the Ashes of Phocion is a 1648 painting, also known as Landscape with the Ashes of Phocion (Collected by His Widow) and The Ashes of Phocion Collected by his Widow, by French artist Nicolas Poussin. Phocion was an Athenian statesman from the 4th century BC. \" It is a picture about exile. Phocion, an Athenian general, was falsely condemned and executed, and his unburied corpse banished, and taken to the outskirts of Megara where it was burnt. At the very front his faithful widow gathers up his ashes. Her servant keeps look out. And the outcasts are placed directly below the mighty nucleus of temple-rock-cloud. But nothing in the scene indicates that the civilisation from which they're excluded is itself evil, corrupt or doomed, that they're well out of it. No, their exile from the good life is sheer tragedy. The majestic symphony of the city continues undiminished. \" The painting is housed at the Walker Art Gallery, part of the National Museums Liverpool, England. The same year Poussin painted a companion piece to Landscape with the Ashes of Phocion, The Funeral of Phocion, in three versions."},{"label":"DBpedia:Lady_Caroline_Howard","descr":"Lady Caroline Howard (1778) is an oil on canvas portrait by Joshua Reynolds. Lady Caroline was the daughter of Frederick Howard, 5th Earl of Carlisle, and Margaret Caroline Howard. She was a spirited child, according to her father, and was seven years old when she sat to Reynolds. The portrait was commissioned by the Earl, and exhibited in 1779 at the Royal Academy before it was hung in Castle Howard. Reynolds was a chief proponent of the Grand Manner and, to that end, the roses Lady Caroline plucks from an urn may have been intended to suggest Chastity, Beauty, and Love, the attributes of Venus and the Three Graces. The NGA writes \"Reynolds has captured some of Lady Caroline's complexity in the serious, intent expression of her attractive face, her averted gaze, and the tension implied in her closed left hand ... the painting is broadly and fluidly executed in thick, opaque layers, with thin translucent glazes in the background. \" National Gallery of Art acquired the portrait in 1937."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_a_Man_(Signorelli)","descr":"The Portrait of a Man is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Luca Signorelli, dated to c. 1492 and housed in the Gem\u00e4ldegalerie, Berlin."},{"label":"DBpedia:Mrs._Richard_Brinsley_Sheridan_(painting)","descr":"Mrs. Richard Brinsley Sheridan (1787) is an oil on canvas portrait painted by Thomas Gainsborough between 1785 and 1787. It was acquired by the National Gallery of Art in 1937. Mrs. Sheridan (Elizabeth Ann Linley) was a talented musician who enjoyed professional success in Bath and London before marrying Richard Brinsley Sheridan in 1773 and abandoning her career. She was 31 when she sat for Gainsborough. (She died from tuberculosis at the age of thirty-eight. ) The portrait was painted between 1785 and 1787, and, was exhibited at Gainsborough's studio at Schomberg House, Pall Mall in 1786. The NGA describes the work as \"freely painted\" and impressionistic in style. The sitter's garb and \"the windblown landscape ... reflect the strong romantic component in Gainsborough's artistic temperament ... Her chin and mouth are firm, definite, and sculptural, and her heavily drawn eyebrows give her a steady, composed, and dignified expression. There is a hint of romantic melancholy in her eyes, with their slightly indirect gaze ... The painting is executed in liquid paint, blended wet into wet, applied in many layers in order to create a rich and sumptuous effect, with thin washes in free-flowing brushstrokes for the details. \" This painting was owned by various members of the famous Rothschild banking family during the 19th century and up until 1936, when it was sold to the Duveen Brothers, Inc. , in London."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Balcony_(painting)","descr":"The Balcony is an 1868 oil painting by the French painter \u00c9douard Manet and was exhibited at the Paris Salon of 1869. The painting depicts four figures. On the left is Berthe Morisot, who became in 1874 the wife of his brother, Eug\u00e8ne. In the centre is the painter Jean Baptiste Antoine Guillemet. On the right is Fanny Claus, a violist. The fourth figure is the background is possibly Leon Leenhoff, Manet's (step) son. It was sold by Gustave Caillebotte in 1884 and is currently kept at the Mus\u00e9e d'Orsay, in Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Age_of_Reptiles","descr":"The Age of Reptiles is a 110-foot mural depicting the period of ancient history when reptiles were the dominant creatures on the earth, painted by Rudolph Franz Zallinger. The fresco sits in the Yale Peabody Museum in New Haven, Connecticut, and was completed in 1947 after three years of work. The Age of Reptiles was at one time the largest painting in the world, and depicts a span of nearly 350\u00a0million years in Earth's history. Painted in the Renaissance fresco secco technique, The Age of Reptiles showcases the contemporary view of dinosaurs as slow, sluggish creatures (a view that has been gradually replaced by more active dinosaurs. ) Zallinger received the Addison Emery Verrill medal in 1980 for the mural."},{"label":"DBpedia:Saint_Luke_Drawing_the_Virgin","descr":"Saint Luke Drawing the Virgin is an oil-on-oak panel painting by the Netherlandish artist Rogier van der Weyden. It depicts Luke the Evangelist, the patron saint of artists, drawing the Virgin Mary as she holds the Child Jesus. Van der Weyden likely made the painting between 1435 and 1440 for the Guild of Saint Luke in Brussels, patrons to the painter. The panel was probably one of van der Weyden's first as the City Painter of Brussels following his apprenticeship with Robert Campin. The Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, where it is held, describes the work as \"among the most important northern European paintings in the United States\". Van der Weyden incorporates religious iconography extensively. A representation of the Fall of Man is carved on the armrest of the Virgin's seat; Adam and Eve symbolize the role of the Virgin and Jesus in the redemption of man. Though she is seated under a damask canopy of estate, Mary sits not on the throne but on its step, representing her humility. A kneeling ox, seen at the very right in the anteroom, is a symbol of Saint Luke, and the open book represents his Gospel. In the rear, the loggia looks into an enclosed garden, hortus conclusus, an emblem of the Virgin's chastity. The artist presents a humanized Virgin and Child, as suggested by the realistic contemporary surroundings, the lack of halos, and the intimate spatial construction. The work follows the example of Jan van Eyck's Madonna of Chancellor Rolin of c. 1435. Van der Weyden's approach is warmer, and emphasizes the artist's profession by having Saint Luke draw the Virgin Mary in silverpoint\u2014an exacting medium implying the artist's skill and confidence. Saint Luke Drawing the Virgin is among the first known examples of the theme in Renaissance art, along with a similar work (a triptych panel) by Robert Campin. It is thought that van der Weyden included his self-portrait in the depiction of Saint Luke\u2014a device often employed by artists to affirm their vocation and in turn, their affinity with the patron saint of the arts. As in the van Eyck Madonna, there are two figures leaning on the bridge looking into the distance. They may not be intended to carry specific identities, but have occasionally been described as Joachim and Anne, the parents of the Virgin. The figures outside are not witness to the moment depicted, implying the privileged position of both Saint Luke and the painting's viewer. Study of the underdrawing shows that van der Weyden intended to include van Eyck's motif of an angel crowning the Virgin, but omitted it from the final painting. The painting's influence was widespread. If the panel had been part of the Guild of Saint Luke's chapel in Brussels, as has been proposed, then many artists would have been able to view and copy it. For some time it was unclear which copy of the painting was the original by van der Weyden. In addition to the Boston version, there are notable copies in Munich, St. Petersburg, and Bruges. Fragments and partial copies exist in Brussels, Kassel, Valladolid, and Barcelona. In the early 20th century, art historians proposed that the original van der Weyden panel may be lost, with all extant versions being copies; or that one of the other panels was the original. Infrared reflectography has since revealed the unique underdrawing of the Boston version, proving that the work is by van der Weyden. Historians also gradually revised the painting's date to earlier in the artist's career, from original speculations of 1450 to the currently accepted 1435\u201340. Despite the eminence of the painting and the many copies of it, little is known of its provenance before the 19th century (as of 1990). It is recorded in 1835 in the collection of Don Infante Sebasti\u00e1n Gabriel Borb\u00f3n y Braganza, a grandnephew of Charles III of Spain, himself an artist whose inventory notes attributed the work to Lucas van Leyden and suggested an earlier restoration. It underwent a major cleaning and restoration in 1932 and has been subject to restoration at least four times. The original is in poor condition, having suffered substantial damage to both frame and surface. The painting was donated to the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston in 1893 by Mr. and Mrs. Henry Lee Higginson following their New York auction purchase in 1889. The museum held an exhibition in 1989 about the work titled \"Art in Context: Rogier van der Weyden's Saint Luke Drawing the Virgin\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Scapegoat_(painting)","descr":"The Scapegoat (1854-6) is a painting by William Holman Hunt which depicts the \"scapegoat\" described in the Book of Leviticus. On the Day of Atonement, a goat would have its horns wrapped with a red cloth - representing the sins of the community - and be driven off. He started painting on the shore of the Dead Sea, and continued in his studio in London. The work exists in two versions, a small version in brighter colours with a dark-haired goat and a rainbow, held by Manchester Art Gallery, and a larger version in more muted tones with a light-haired goat held by the Lady Lever Art Gallery in Port Sunlight."},{"label":"DBpedia:Window_at_Tangier","descr":"Window at Tangier by Henri Matisse. An example of Matisse's paintings after the colorful revolution of his Fauvism period. After several trips outside of France, Matisse became interested in the Islamic art of North Africa. He visited Morocco in 1912 and 1913. Window in Tangier, with its bold color and flat perspective reflects a Moroccan influence in Matisse's work. This was among several works acquired directly from Matisse in Paris by the Russian collector Ivan Morozov. After the Russian Revolution the Morozov collection was confiscated and eventually by 1948 the collection was donated to the public along with the Sergei Shchukin collection, at the Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts in Moscow and the Hermitage in St Petersburg."},{"label":"DBpedia:Ophelia_(painting)","descr":"Ophelia is a painting by British artist Sir John Everett Millais, completed between 1851 and 1852. Currently held in the Tate Britain in London, it depicts Ophelia, a character from Shakespeare's play Hamlet, singing before she drowns in a river in Denmark. The work was not widely regarded when first exhibited at the Royal Academy, but has since come to be admired for its beauty and its accurate depiction of a natural landscape. Ophelia has been estimated to have a market value of around \u00a330 million."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Old_Musician","descr":"The Old Musician is an 1862 painting by French painter \u00c9douard Manet, produced during the period when the artist was influenced by Spanish art. The painting also shows the influence of the work of Gustave Courbet. This work is one of Manet's largest paintings and is now conserved at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC.. The painting is composed of six characters and a baby in a landscape. Most of them are in fact real individuals. The old musician in the center who is preparing to play the violin is Jean Lagr\u00e8ne, the leader of a local gypsy band. At the right, there are a young girl standing with a baby in her arms, and two young boys. In the background, the man in the top hat is the rag picker and ironmonger Colardet. At the right, the Oriental man with a turban and a long robe, partly shown, represents Gu\u00e9roult, a \"wandering Jew\". Attitudes and clothes of the characters seem to be inspired by Diego Vel\u00e1zquez or Louis Le Nain. The painting contains a series of more or less explicit allusions: the man in the top hat is the same character as The Absinthe Drinker, painted by Manet some years earlier and who reappears in this painting without any particular reason. The young boy in straw hat, meanwhile, is explicitly inspired by Antoine Watteau's Pierrot."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Fifer","descr":"The Fifer or Young Flautist is a painting by French painter \u00c9douard Manet, made in 1866. It is currently kept in the Mus\u00e9e d'Orsay, Paris."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Dream_of_the_Fisherman's_Wife","descr":", also known as Girl Diver and Octopi, Diver and Two Octopi, etc. , is an erotic woodcut of the ukiyo-e genre by the Japanese artist Hokusai. It is from the book Kinoe no Komatsu (English: Young Pines), a three-volume collection of shunga erotic prints first published in 1814, and is the most famous shunga Hokusai ever produced. Playing with themes popular in contemporary Japanese art, it depicts a young ama diver entwined sexually with a pair of octopuses."},{"label":"DBpedia:A_Sunday_Afternoon_on_the_Island_of_La_Grande_Jatte","descr":"A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte \u2013 1884 (French: Un dimanche apr\u00e8s-midi \u00e0 l'\u00cele de la Grande Jatte - 1884) is one of Georges Seurat's most famous works, and is an example of pointillism."},{"label":"DBpedia:Daubigny's_Garden","descr":"Daubigny's Garden, painted three times by Vincent van Gogh, depicts the enclosed garden of Charles-Fran\u00e7ois Daubigny, a painter whom Van Gogh admired throughout his life. Van Gogh started with a small study of a section of the garden. Then he worked on two double-square paintings of the full walled garden. The paintings were made in Auvers between May and July 1890, during the last few months of his life. All three paintings are titled Daubigny's Garden and are distinguished by the museums they reside in: Kunstmuseum Basel, Hiroshima Museum of Art and Van Gogh Museum."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_a_Collector","descr":"Portrait of a Collector is a painting by the Italian Mannerist artist Parmigianino, executed around 1524."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Problem_We_All_Live_With","descr":"The Problem We All Live With is a 1964 painting by Norman Rockwell. An iconic image of the civil rights movement in the United States, it depicts Ruby Bridges, a six-year-old African-American girl, on her way in to an all-white public school in New Orleans on November 14, 1960 during the process of racial desegregation. Because of threats and violence against her, she is escorted by four U.S. Deputy Marshals; the painting is framed such that the marshals' heads are cropped at the shoulders. On the wall behind her is written the racial slur \"nigger\" and the letters \"KKK\"; a smashed tomato thrown at Bridges is also visible. The white crowd is not visible, as the viewer is looking at the scene from their point of view. The painting is oil on canvas and measures 36\u00a0inches high by 58\u00a0inches wide. The painting was originally published as a centerfold in the January 14, 1964 issue of Look. Rockwell had ended his contract with the Saturday Evening Post the previous year due to frustration with the limits the magazine placed on his expression of political themes, and Look offered him a forum for his progressive social interests, including civil rights and racial integration. Rockwell explored similar themes in Southern Justice (Murder in Mississippi) and New Kids in the Neighborhood; unlike his previous works for the Post, The Problem We All Live With and these others place black people as protagonists, instead of as observers or in servile roles. Like New Kids in the Neighborhood, The Problem We All Live With depicts a black child protagonist; like Southern Justice, it uses strong light-dark contrasts to further its racial theme. At Bridges' suggestion, in July 2011 President Barack Obama had the painting installed in the White House, in a hallway outside the Oval Office. Art historian William Kloss stated, \"It\u2019s a painting that could not be hung even for a brief time in the public spaces [of the White House]. I\u2019m pretty sure of that. \" The painting was on display through October 2011. The painting's home is at the Norman Rockwell Museum in Stockbridge, Massachusetts."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Holy_Family_(Collinson_painting)","descr":"The Holy Family is an oil painting on canvas of the Holy Family by the Pre-Raphaelite artist James Collinson. The painting dates from 1878 when the artist was living in Brittany. The town in the background may be Saint-Malo. The scene is of Jesus as an infant, with his earthly father Joseph and mother Mary. The specific scene does not appear in the Biblical Gospels, but it has many precedents in Renaissance art. The dove typically represents the Holy Spirit, who took this form at the baptism of Jesus. The extremely detailed depiction of the growing flora is closely comparable to Collinson's early Pre-Raphaelite work, and differs from his other paintings from this period."},{"label":"DBpedia:La_Schiavona","descr":"Portrait of a Lady, also known as La Schiavona (the woman from Dalmatia), is a 1510\u201312 portrait by Titian of an unknown woman. Its subject is shown three-quarter length and in relief (inspired by ancient cameos) on a raised section of the parapet. The parapet is original, though the raised section appears to be a revision by Titian himself (drapery painted under it can now be seen through it). It is signed TV on the parapet. It was presented to the National Gallery in London in 1942 by Sir Francis Cook, Bt, in memory of his father Herbert, via the Art Fund \u2013 it is still in the Gallery's collection, as NG5385. From October 2009 to January 2010, La Schiavona was loaned to the Henry Moore Institute in Leeds to be shown as part of an exhibition called \"Sculpture In Painting\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:Flagellation_of_Christ_(Piero_della_Francesca)","descr":"The Flagellation of Christ (probably 1455\u20131460) is a painting by Piero della Francesca in the Galleria Nazionale delle Marche in Urbino, Italy. Called by one writer an \"enigmatic little painting,\" the composition is complex and unusual, and its iconography has been the subject of widely differing theories. Kenneth Clark placed The Flagellation in his personal list of the best ten paintings, calling it 'the greatest small painting in the world'."},{"label":"DBpedia:Arnolfini_Portrait","descr":"The Arnolfini Portrait is an oil painting on oak panel dated 1434 by the Early Netherlandish painter Jan van Eyck. It is also known as The Arnolfini Wedding, The Arnolfini Marriage, The Arnolfini Double Portrait or the Portrait of Giovanni Arnolfini and his Wife, among other titles. The painting is a small full-length double portrait, which is believed to represent the Italian merchant Giovanni di Nicolao Arnolfini and possibly his wife, presumably in their home in the Flemish city of Bruges. It is considered one of the more original and complex paintings in Western art because of the iconography, the unusual geometric orthogonal perspective, the use of the mirror to reflect an inverted reflection of the space, and that the portrait is considered unique by some art historians as the record of a marriage contract in the form of a painting. According to Ernst Gombrich \"in its own way it was as new and revolutionary as Donatello's or Masaccio's work in Italy. A simple corner of the real world had suddenly been fixed on to a panel as if by magic\u00a0... For the first time in history the artist became the perfect eye-witness in the truest sense of the term\". Signed and dated by van Eyck in 1434, it is, with the Ghent Altarpiece by the same artist and his brother Hubert, the oldest very famous panel painting to have been executed in oils rather than in tempera. The painting was bought by the National Gallery in London in 1842. Van Eyck used the technique of applying layer after layer of thin translucent glazes to create a painting with an intensity of both tone and colour. The glowing colours also help to highlight the realism, and to show the material wealth and opulence of Arnolfini's world. Van Eyck took advantage of the longer drying time of oil paint, compared to tempera, to blend colours by painting wet-in-wet to achieve subtle variations in light and shade to heighten the illusion of three-dimensional forms. The medium of oil paint also permitted van Eyck to capture surface appearance and distinguish textures precisely. He also rendered the effects of both direct and diffuse light by showing the light from the window on the left reflected by various surfaces. It has been suggested that he used a magnifying glass in order to paint the minute details such as the individual highlights on each of the amber beads hanging beside the mirror. The illusionism of the painting was remarkable for its time, in part for the rendering of detail, but particularly for the use of light to evoke space in an interior, for \"its utterly convincing depiction of a room, as well of the people who inhabit it\". Whatever meaning is given to the scene and its details, and there has been much debate on this, according to Craig Harbison the painting \"is the only fifteenth-century Northern panel to survive in which the artist's contemporaries are shown engaged in some sort of action in a contemporary interior. It is indeed tempting to call this the first genre painting - a painting of everyday life - of modern times\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Geographer","descr":"The Geographer is a painting created by Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer in 1668\u20131669, and is now in the collection of the St\u00e4delsches Kunstinstitut museum in Frankfurt, Germany."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Death_of_Socrates","descr":"The Death of Socrates is a 1787 oil on canvas painting by the French painter Jacques-Louis David. The Death of Socrates 350px Artist Jacques-Louis David Year 1787\u00a0(1787) Type Oil on canvas Dimensions 129.5\u00a0cm \u00d7\u00a0196.2\u00a0cm Location Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York Like many of his paintings from that decade, the Death of Socrates focuses on a classical subject. In this case, it is the story of Socrates\u2019s execution, as told by Plato in Phaedo. In this story, Socrates, as punishment for criticizing Critias, the tyrant of Athens, is told he must either drink the poison hemlock or face exile. Socrates, rather than fleeing, uses his death as a final lesson for his pupils, and faces it calmly. In the painting, an old man in a white robe sits upright on a bed, one hand extended over a cup, the other gesturing in the air. He is surrounded by other men of varying ages, most showing emotional distress, unlike the stoic old man. The young man handing him the cup looks the other way, with his face in his free hand. Another young man clutches the thigh of the old man. An elderly man sits at the end of the bed, slumped over and looking in his lap. To the left of the painting, the wall becomes an arch, with more men in the background."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Madhouse","descr":"The Madhouse (Casa de locos) or Asylum (Manicomio) is an oil-on-panel painting by Francisco de Goya. He produced it between 1812 and 1819. It shows a mental asylum, with its inhabitants in many different poses. Marked by a Piranesian and claustrophobic architecture, the painting's only light source is a barred window high up on the wall, clearly meant to repress the figures below. These figures are distinct characters, all engaged in grotesque and pitiable behaviour - one wears what seems to be a wild-feathered headdress, another is fighting in a tricorne, another makes a gesture of blessing to the viewer, whilst many of the others are naked. The subject of psychiatric institutions was a hot topic in the salons of the Spanish Enlightenment and so this painting could be meant as a denunciation of then-current practice in that area. Even if it is not, Goya was always attracted to representing madness, deformity or perversion. Some of the figures can also be interpreted allegorically, as a gallery of parodies of powerful figures in society, such as the clergy or the army (the man in the tricorne hat). It develops the topic of 'the world of dreams' ('mundo al rev\u00e9s') and is related to Goya's engravings series Los disparates. Goya had already touched on the issue in his 1793 painting Corral de locos, but The Madhouse shows greater variety, with less mad, less picturesque, more individualised and more characterised figures, shown more humanity and clearly marked as poor victims of marginalisation and rejection."},{"label":"DBpedia:Snow_at_Argenteuil","descr":"Snow at Argenteuil (French: Rue sous la neige, Argenteuil) is an oil-on-canvas landscape painting from the Impressionist artist Claude Monet. It is the largest of no fewer than eighteen works Monet painted of his home commune of Argenteuil while it was under a blanket of snow during the winter of 1874-1875. This painting\u2014number\u00a0352 in Wildenstein\u2019s catalogue of the works of Monet\u2014is the largest of the eighteen. The attention to detail evident in the smaller paintings is less evident in this larger picture. Instead, Monet has rendered large areas of the canvas in closely like tones and colours of blue and grey. The application of smaller strokes of greens, yellows, reds and darker blues breaks up these large expanses, and the almost choreographed dispersal of these various colours helps bind the picture together. Paint at the depicted road surface is thicker than elsewhere in the painting, and impasto is suggestive of the feel of disturbed snow. Most of Monet\u2019s Snow at Argenteuil pictures from the winter of 1874-1875 were painted from locations close to the house on the boulevard\u00a0Saint-Denis (now number 21\u00a0boulevard\u00a0Karl Marx) into which Monet and his family had just moved. This particular painting shows the boulevard Saint-Denis looking in the direction of the junction with the rue\u00a0de\u00a0la\u00a0Voie-des-Bans, with the river Seine out of sight to the rear, and the local railway station behind Monet\u2019s back as he painted. In December 1879 the painting was acquired from Monet by Th\u00e9odore Duret. Recalling a conversation with the artist \u00c9douard\u00a0Manet, Duret years later reported that, \u2018One winter he [Manet Manet] wanted to paint a snow scene. I had in my possession just such a piece from Monet. After seeing it, he said \u201cIt is perfect! I would not know how to do better\u201d, whereupon he gave up painting snow. \u2019 The picture was acquired from Duret by the art dealers Boussod, Valadon et Cie of Paris in 1892; then by Harris Whittemore of Naugatuck, Connecticut in 1893. Acquavella Galleries of New York acquired the painting in the early 1970s, and then it was purchased by Simon Sainsbury in or around 1973. It was bequeathed by him to the National Gallery, London, in 2006 and it has remained there since."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Innocent_X","descr":"The Portrait of Pope Innocent X is an oil on canvas portrait by the Spanish painter Diego Vel\u00e1zquez, finished during a trip to Italy around 1650. Many artists and art critics consider it the finest portrait ever created. It is housed in the Galleria Doria Pamphilj in Rome. A smaller version is housed in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. The Irish-born painter Francis Bacon made a series of paintings, the \"Screaming Popes\" based on the work, now famous in their own right."},{"label":"DBpedia:Trumbull's_Declaration_of_Independence","descr":"John Trumbull's Declaration of Independence is a 12-by-18-foot oil-on-canvas painting in the United States Capitol Rotunda that depicts the presentation of the draft of the Declaration of Independence to Congress. It was based on a much smaller version of the same scene, presently held by the Yale University Art Gallery. Trumbull painted many of the figures in the picture from life and visited Independence Hall as well to depict the chamber where the Second Continental Congress met. The oil-on-canvas work was commissioned in 1817, purchased in 1819, and placed in the rotunda in 1826. The painting is sometimes incorrectly described as the signing of the Declaration of Independence. In fact, the painting actually shows the five-man drafting committee presenting their draft of the Declaration to the Congress, an event that took place on June 28, 1776, and not the signing of the document, which took place later. The painting shows 42 of the 56 signers of the Declaration; Trumbull originally intended to include all 56 signers, but was unable to obtain likenesses for all of them. He also decided to depict several participants in the debate who did not sign the document, including John Dickinson, who declined to sign. Because the Declaration was debated and signed over a period of time when membership in Congress changed, the men in the painting had never all been in the same room at the same time. Thomas Jefferson seems to be stepping on the foot of John Adams in the painting, which many think is supposed to symbolize their relationship as political enemies. However, upon closer examination of the painting, it can be seen that their feet are merely close together. This part of the image was correctly depicted on the two-dollar bill version."},{"label":"DBpedia:Aquis_Submersus","descr":"Aquis Submersus (Latin for Water Drowning) is a painting by the German dadaist\/surrealist Max Ernst created in 1919. It is one of Ernst's earliest known surrealist works. It depicts a swimming pool surrounded by buildings. The sense of dimension is unclear. The features of the buildings appear to be hand-drawn. The buildings leave shadows against the sky like a wall. Hanging in the sky is a clock that reflects on the water as a moon. In the foreground is an upsidedown figure that appears to have been made out of clay and is drowning. It bears the handlebar mustache that was worn by Ernst's father. The painting carries the same name as a famous novella by Theodor Storm, published in 1876."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Death_of_Captain_James_Cook_(Zoffany)","descr":"The Death of Captain James Cook, 14 February 1779 is a painting by Johann Zoffany. The painting records the loss of the British explorer Captain James Cook. The painting was completed in 1794 some years after the death of Cook in 1779. Other paintings of the death of Cook were painted earlier. The Mahiole (Feathered Helmet) that was included in the painting of Cook's death by Zoffany is said to be the helmet given to Cook when he first landed in Hawaii."},{"label":"DBpedia:Stevenson_Memorial","descr":"Stevenson Memorial is a 1903 oil painting by the American artist Abbott Handerson Thayer, intended to commemorate the writer Robert Louis Stevenson. Though Thayer initiated several paintings with the intent of honoring Stevenson, Stevenson Memorial is the only version to survive the artist's revisions."},{"label":"DBpedia:Astronomer_Copernicus,_or_Conversations_with_God","descr":"Astronomer Copernicus, or Conversations with God (Polish: Astronom Kopernik, czyli rozmowa z Bogiem) is an oil painting by the Polish artist Jan Matejko, finished in 1873, depicting Nicolaus Copernicus observing the heavens from a balcony by a tower near the cathedral in Frombork (seen in the back). Currently the painting is in the collection of the Jagiellonian University of Krak\u00f3w, which purchased it from a private owner with money donated by the Polish public. The painting presently adorns the Aula of the Collegium Novum of the University. As with many other works, Matejko painted his artwork in 1872 as part of a series of paintings intended to represent profound moments in the history of Poland."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_a_Young_Fianc%C3%A9e","descr":"Portrait of a Young Fianc\u00e9e, also called La Bella Principessa, is a portrait in coloured chalks and ink, on vellum, of a young lady in fashionable costume and hairstyle of a Milanese of the 1490s. Sold at auction in 1998 as an early 19th century German work, it has since been attributed to Leonardo da Vinci by some experts, including Martin Kemp, who, in 2010, made it the subject of his book La Bella Principessa. The Profile Portrait of a Milanese Woman - The Story of the New Masterpiece by Leonardo da Vinci Evidence discovered in 2011 accounting for its provenance has strengthened the case for it being by Leonardo. The attribution to Leonardo da Vinci has been disputed. Most of those who disagree with the attribution to Leonardo believe the portrait is by an early 19th century German artist imitating the style of the Italian Renaissance. The current owner purchased the portrait in 2007."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_a_Cardinal_(Raphael)","descr":"The Portrait of a Cardinal is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. It is housed in the Prado Museum in Madrid. The Cardinal has been identified as either Alidosi, Bibbiena, Cybo or Trivulzio, in the court of Pope Julius II. Painted in Rome, Rafael mastered the art of realism in his paintings, the ability to \u201cpaint people as more real than they really are,\u201d as his peers put it. Like Leonardo da Vinci\u2019s Mona Lisa, the subject is seated, with formation of a triangle pyramid by the subjects' body and arms. The contrasts are striking between the red of his hat, whiteness of his sleeve and his face. Meticulous brushstrokes give the audience a three-dimensional character, revealing Rapahel\u2019s interest in sculpture during those years. While still a prince, the painting was acquired by Carlos IV of Spain (1748\u20131819) in Rome. The picture was attributed to Antonio Moro, due to its technique, considered unusual in Raphael."},{"label":"DBpedia:Christ_Washing_the_Disciples'_Feet_(Tintoretto)","descr":"Christ Washing the Disciples' Feet was a favourite theme of Tintoretto, and there are at least six known works by him on the subject. The scene comes from a passage in John 13 where after the Last Supper Christ washes the feet of his disciples. This passage called for a complex image with many characters in a variety of poses and motions, and the diversity and challenge attracted Tintoretto. The paintings were commissioned for various churches of Venice, though since then four of the six have left Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Song_of_Love","descr":"The Song of Love (also known as Le chant d'amour or Love Song; 1914) is a painting by the Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. It is one of the most famous works by de Chirico and an early example of the surrealist style, though it was painted ten years before the movement was \"founded\" by Andr\u00e9 Breton in 1924. It depicts an outdoor architectural setting similar to other works by de Chirico at this time. This time however, the main focus is a small wall on which is mounted a Greek sculpted head and a surgeon's glove. Below it is a green ball. On the horizon is the outline of a locomotive, an image that recurs several times during this period of de Chirico's career."},{"label":"DBpedia:Salisbury_Cathedral_from_the_Meadows","descr":"Salisbury Cathedral from the Meadows was painted by John Constable in 1831, one year after his wife\u2019s death. It is currently (since 2011) on display at the National Gallery, London, on loan from a prvate collection. He later added nine lines from \u201cThe Seasons\u201d by the eighteenth-century poet James Thomson that reveal the painting's meaning: That the rainbow is a symbol of hope after a storm that follows on the death of the young Amelia in the arms of her lover Celadon. Constable exhibited this painting at the Royal Academy in 1831, but continued working on it during 1833 and 1834. This painting was a personal statement of his turbulent emotions and his changing states of mind. The sky reflects this turbulence and shows his emotional state of being. Possible political meanings have been attributed to it, one of which being the clash of industrialization and nature represented through the clash of elements. Some symbolism in this painting includes: Grave marker: symbol of death Ash tree: symbol of life Church: symbol of faith and resurrection Rainbow: symbol of renewed optimism"},{"label":"DBpedia:Hip,_Hip,_Hurrah!","descr":"Hip, Hip, Hurrah! is an oil-on-canvas painting from 1888 by Norwegian-Danish painter Peder Severin Kr\u00f8yer. It shows various members of what Kr\u00f8yer referred to as the \"guild\" of Skagen Painters: a group of Danish, Norwegian and Swedish artists who formed a loose community in Skagen at the northern tip of Jutland in the 1880s and early 1890s. Hip, Hip, Hurrah! is typical of the work produced by the Skagen Painters; very much in the style of the French Impressionists and Naturalists, it celebrates the play of light in the scene (and in composition and subject draws obvious comparisons to Renoir's Luncheon of the Boating Party), but at the same time it harks back to the freundschaftbild tradition of artists of the Danish Golden Age such as Ditlev Blunck and Wilhelm Bendz in depicting artistic communities spontaneously drawing together. The development of Kr\u00f8yer's Skagen style can be seen by comparing Hip, Hip, Hurrah! with (Artists' Luncheon at Skagen), a similarly themed 1883 painting which features many of the same people; and with later works like ' (Summer Evening at Skagen beach. The Artist and his Wife) and Roser (Roses). The painting was started in 1884 after a party at Michael Ancher's house; the composition was inspired by photographs taken at the celebration by the German artist Fritz Stoltenberg, although the individuals featured are not all the same. Kr\u00f8yer returned uninvited to Ancher's house the morning after the gathering with his easel and paints, eager to start sketching and expecting the freedom to come and go as he pleased. His lack of consideration annoyed Ancher who had only recently moved to the house in an attempt to escape the hustle and bustle of town life; as a result, the two artists suffered their first serious falling-out. Although they reconciled soon afterwards, Kr\u00f8yer did not get the unlimited access to Ancher's garden that he had expected and, frustrated, he struggled to progress with the work. He made do with the garden at Ancher's old apartment and worked from photographs and from life when he got the chance. It was four years before he could complete the picture. Helga, Ancher's daughter who had been less than a year old at the time of the original festivities is shown to be older in the final painting, suggesting she was not included until later in the composition. Swedish art collector Pontus F\u00fcrstenberg bought the painting unseen (or at least before it was completed). It was displayed at Charlottenborg in 1888, and F\u00fcrstenberg later donated it to the Gothenburg Museum of Art, where it has hung ever since. The Skagens Museum has a small sketch from 1888. From left to right the people pictured are: Martha M\u00f8ller Johansen, her husband, the painter Viggo Johansen, Norwegian painter Christian Krohg, Kr\u00f8yer, Degn Br\u00f8ndum (Anna Ancher's brother), Michael Ancher, Swedish painter Oscar Bj\u00f6rck, Danish painter Thorvald Niss, teacher Helene Christensen (who was romantically involved with Kr\u00f8yer), Danish painter Anna Ancher and her daughter Helga Ancher."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Madame_Marie-Louise_Trudaine","descr":"The Portrait of Madame Marie-Louise Trudaine is an unfinished 1791\u20131792 portrait of Marie-Louise Trudaine by the French painter Jacques-Louis David. It was commissioned from David by her brothers-in-law, the Trudaine brothers (the Trudaine family had provided France with major civil servants such as Daniel-Charles Trudaine since the 17th century) who welcomed David, the poet Andr\u00e9 Ch\u00e9nier and other major artists of the time to their Parisian salon at place des Vosges. It shows her seated on a simple chaisse, with her hands crossed on her lap and wearing a sober dress, a blue waist-sash and a white collar. Her expression is worried and reinforced by the tormented background and her unkempt hair. David became radicalised at the time of the French Revolution in 1792, was elected a deputy to the National Convention, and became an extremist\u2014unlike the Trudaine family, who opted for obscurity. David left the portrait unfinished."},{"label":"DBpedia:Die_Fahne_Hoch!_(Frank_Stella)","descr":"Die Fahne Hoch! is a Minimalist painting by Frank Stella completed in 1959. The use of basic geometric systems in the work is regarded by many as the precursor of Minimalism. The painting was made by marking equal subdivisions along the sides, bottom and top edges of the canvas and using these intervals to generate simple, symmetrical patterns consisting of bands of black enamel paint separated by thin lines of unpainted canvas. Frank Stella gave the work a provocative title. Die Fahne Hoch! is named after the anthem of the Nazi Party, the Horst-Wessel-Lied, and is one of several paintings in the series that make direct reference to Nazism. By applying a hotly emotive title to the image, Stella's ironic purpose was that of destabilizing the idea of meaning itself."},{"label":"DBpedia:Self-portrait_with_a_friend_(Raphael)","descr":"The Self-Portrait with a friend (also known as Double Portrait) is a painting by Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. It dates to 1518-1520, and is housed in the Louvre Museum of Paris, France."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Agnew_Clinic","descr":"The Agnew Clinic, or, The Clinic of Dr. Agnew, is an 1889 oil painting by American artist Thomas Eakins, Goodrich #235. It was commissioned to honor anatomist and surgeon David Hayes Agnew, on his retirement from teaching at the University of Pennsylvania. The Agnew Clinic 300px Artist Thomas Eakins Year 1889 Type Oil on canvas Dimensions 214\u00a0cm \u00d7\u00a0300\u00a0cm (84\u215c\u00a0in \u00d7\u00a0118\u215b\u00a0in) Location John Morgan Building at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania"},{"label":"DBpedia:Self-Portrait_in_a_Striped_T-shirt","descr":"Self-Portrait in a Striped T-shirt (1906) is a painting in oil on canvas by Henri Matisse from his Fauvism period, in the collection of Statens Museum for Kunst, Copenhagen, Denmark."},{"label":"DBpedia:Self-Portrait_with_Palette_(Manet)","descr":"Self-Portrait with Palette is an 1878\u201379 painting by the French artist \u00c9douard Manet. This late, impressionistic work is one of his two self-portraits. Velasquez's self-portrait in Las Meninas was a particular inspiration for Manet's painting, which despite its allusion to the previous artist's work is very modern in its focus upon the personality of the artist and loose paint handling. A long series of prominent collectors have owned this painting, which was sold for a $29.48 million at Sotheby's on 22 June 2010."},{"label":"DBpedia:Christ_in_the_House_of_His_Parents","descr":"Christ in the House of His Parents (1849\u201350) is a painting by John Everett Millais depicting the Holy Family in Saint Joseph's carpentry workshop. The painting was extremely controversial when first exhibited, prompting many negative reviews, most notably one written by Charles Dickens. It catapulted the previously obscure Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood to notoriety and was a major contributor to the debate about Realism in the arts. It is currently housed in the Tate Britain in London."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Worship_of_Venus","descr":"The Worship of Venus is an oil on canvas painting by the Italian artist Titian completed between 1518\u20131519, housed at the Museo del Prado in Madrid, Spain. It describes a Roman rite of worship conducted in honour of the goddess Venus each 1 April. On this occasion, women would make offerings to representations of the goddess so as to cleanse \"every blemish on their bodies\". In Titian's work, two nymphs, one young and one matronly, are situated to the right of the ceremony, attending to a shrine holding a representation of Venus. The shrine is surrounded by votive tablets. The older woman checks on the decorations with the use of a mirror which she holds high in her extended right hand. The foreground of the canvas is thronged with a swarm of male infants, or putti, who distract themselves in activities such as climbing trees, leaping, flying, gathering apples, lying around, fighting, fondling, shooting arrows and pulling each other's hair. A dam is shown in the middle background, near a sunlit meadow. The far distance is decorated with a mountain and blue sky. Titian based the image on the writings of the Greek sophist Philostratus. In his \"Imagines I, VI\", Philostratus wrote, \"See cupids are gathering apples: and if there are many of them, do not be surprised... The cupids' quiver are studded with gold, and golden also are the darts in them... they have hung their quivers on the apple trees; and in the grass lie their broidered mantles... Ah, the baskets into which they gather their apples!\""},{"label":"DBpedia:Sc%C3%A8ne_d'%C3%A9t%C3%A9","descr":"Sc\u00e8ne d'\u00e9t\u00e9, or Summer Scene, is an oil painting by Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Bazille, completed in 1869, a year before his death in 1870. The impressionist painting depicts young men dressed in swimsuits having a leisurely day along the banks of a river near M\u00e9ric. Bazille achieved the look he wanted for the painting by first drawing the human figures in his Paris studio and then transporting the drawings to the outdoor setting. Like his earlier painting R\u00e9union de famille (1850), Sc\u00e8ne d'\u00e9t\u00e9 captured friends and family members in the outdoors and was exhibited at the Paris Salon in 1870. It may have been an inspiration for Thomas Eakins' The Swimming Hole (1885), as Eakins was in Paris in 1870 and could have seen Bazille's painting. It is currently housed in the Fogg Art Museum in Cambridge, Massachusetts."},{"label":"DBpedia:Pollice_Verso_(G%C3%A9r%C3%B4me)","descr":"Pollice Verso (from Latin: with a turned thumb) is a painting by French artist Jean-L\u00e9on G\u00e9r\u00f4me, featuring the eponymous Roman gesture directed to the winning gladiators. The gesture on the painting is given by the Vestals to victorious secutor, awaiting the decision on beaten retiarius at Colosseum. The painting inspired the 2000 film Gladiator, where Commodus holds raised thumb to spare Maximus."},{"label":"DBpedia:Adoration_of_the_Magi_(Rubens)","descr":"Peter Paul Rubens painted The Adoration of the Magi more often than any other episode from the life of Christ. The adoration of the Magi offered the Counter-Reformation artist the chance to depict the richest worldly panoply, rich textiles, exotic turbans and other incidents, with a range of human types caught up in a dramatic action that expressed the humbling of the world before the Church, embodied in Madonna and child. The horizontal composition of the Adoration of the Magi conserved at the Mus\u00e9e des Beaux-Arts de Lyon arranges full-length figures across the canvas, backed by a frieze-like crowd showing a variety of mature male types, twelve in all. The oldest magus kneels and kisses the foot of the Christ Child with a tender gesture, as the Child, standing on a straw-strewn table, where he is presented by the Virgin Mary, touches the magus' bald head in a gesture of benediction. The dim stable is lit by shafts of light. Peter C. Sutton suggested that, as Rubens' treatments of this subject in vertical formats were for known ecclesiastical commissions as altarpieces, the horizontal format, which is shared with Rubens' Adoration painted for the Statenkamer of Antwerp's town hall, c. 1608-09, might suggest that the Lyon painting was also a secular commission. The painting had a distinguished early history: it was purchased by Maximilian II Emanuel, Prince-Elector of Bavaria in Antwerp in September 1698, from Gijsbert van Ceulen, part of a spectacular group of paintings that included twelve other paintings by Rubens that are now among the Wittelsbach works of art from Schleissheim now in the Alte Pinakothek, Munich. It languished as a copy until Jacques Fouquart resuscitated its reputation, recognized as a major work of Rubens, in the exhibition Le si\u00e8cle de Rubens, Paris, 1977-78. There is an oil preparatory sketch, long hidden in private collections."},{"label":"DBpedia:Autumn_Leaves_(painting)","descr":"Autumn Leaves (1856) is a painting by John Everett Millais exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1856. It was described by the critic John Ruskin as \"the first instance of a perfectly painted twilight. \" Millais's wife Effie wrote that he had intended to create a picture that was \"full of beauty and without a subject\". The picture depicts four girls in the twilight collecting and raking together fallen leaves in a garden. They are making a bonfire, but the fire itself is invisible, only smoke emerging from between the leaves. The two girls on the left, modelled on Millias' sisters-in-law Alice and Sophy Gray, are portrayed in middle class clothing of the era; the two on the right are in rougher, working class clothing. The painting has been seen as one of the earliest influences on the development of the aesthetic movement."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_March_of_the_Guards_to_Finchley","descr":"The March of the Guards to Finchley, also known as The March to Finchley or The March of the Guards, is a 1750 oil-on-canvas painting by English artist William Hogarth, owned by the Thomas Coram Foundation for Children since 1750 and now housed at the Foundling Museum. Hogarth was well known for his satirical works, and The March of the Guards to Finchley has been said to have given full scope to this sense of satire; it was described by Hogarth himself as \"steeped in humour\". The painting is a depiction of a fictional mustering of troops on the Tottenham Court Road to march north to Finchley to defend the capital from the second Jacobite rebellion of 1745, which was part of a series of uprisings that had been occurring since the late 17th century and were aimed at returning the Stuart Dynasty to the throne after the Glorious Revolution of 1688. It portrays the soldiers in a humorous light, placing exaggerated emphasis on their lack of training and respect for discipline. The March of the Guards to Finchley was originally intended to be a gift to the incumbent King of England, George II. However, George II was insulted by the apparent jab at his best troops, and rejected it when it was offered to him. Upset at the King's spurning of his work, Hogarth opted to change the engraving and present the painting instead to the King of Prussia, Frederick II, who, being known for his skills as a soldier rather than an artist, was reportedly much more satisfied with the gift."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Blind_Girl","descr":"The Blind Girl (1856) is a painting by John Everett Millais which depicts two itinerant beggars, presumed to be sisters, one of whom is a blind musician, her concertina on her lap. They are resting by the roadside after a rainstorm, before travelling to the town of Winchelsea, visible in the background. The painting has been interpreted as an allegory of the senses, contrasting the experiences of the blind and sighted sisters. The former feels the warmth of the sun on her face, and fondles a leaf of grass, while the latter shields her eyes from the sun or rain and looks at the unusual spectacle of a double rainbow that has just appeared. Some critics have interpreted the rainbow in Biblical terms, as the sign of God's covenant described in Genesis 9:16. When the painting was first exhibited in 1856 it was pointed out to Millais that in double rainbows the inner rainbow inverts the order of the colours. Millais had originally painted the colours in the same order in both rainbows. He altered it for scientific accuracy. A tortoiseshell butterfly rests on the blind girl's shawl, implying that she is holding herself extremely still. The sheet around her neck is captioned \"Pity the Blind\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:A_Bar_at_the_Folies-Berg%C3%A8re","descr":"A Bar at the Folies-Berg\u00e8re (French: Un bar aux Folies Berg\u00e8re), painted and exhibited at the Paris Salon in 1882, was the last major work by French painter \u00c9douard Manet. It depicts a scene in the Folies Berg\u00e8re nightclub in Paris. It originally belonged to the composer Emmanuel Chabrier, who was Manet's neighbor, and hung over his piano."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Captive_King","descr":"The Captive King is a sketch by Joseph Wright of Derby completed in 1772 or 1773. It depicts the French nobleman Guy de Lusignan held prisoner by Saladin. The sketch is thought to have been a preparation for the now-lost painting Guy de Lusignan in Prison."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Rest_on_the_Flight_to_Egypt_with_Saint_Francis","descr":"The Rest on the Flight to Egypt with Saint Francis is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Correggio, dated to c. 1520 and housed in the Uffizi Gallery of Florence."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Maddalena_Doni","descr":"The Portrait of Maddalena Doni is an oil painting by Italian Renaissance master Raphael, executed between 1506 and 1507. It is housed in the Pitti Palace in Florence."},{"label":"DBpedia:Annunciation_(Caravaggio)","descr":"The Annunciation is an oil painting by the Italian master Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio, finished around 1608. It housed in the Mus\u00e9e des Beaux-Arts de Nancy. The painting has been considerably damaged and retouched, and what remains of Caravaggio's brushwork is the angel, who bears a resemblance to the figure in John the Baptist at the Fountain. The illusionistic treatment of the angel, floating on his cloud and seeming to protrude outside the picture plane, is more Baroque than is normal for Caravaggio, but the contrast between the energetic pose of the heavenly messenger and the receptive Mary is dramatically and psychologically effective. The loose brushwork is typical of Caravaggio's later period. The painting was given by Henry II, Duke of Lorraine, to his primatial church in Nancy as the main altarpiece, and was perhaps acquired by one of the Duke's sons in the course of a visit to Malta in 1608."},{"label":"DBpedia:Venus_Blindfolding_Cupid","descr":"Venus Blindfolding Cupid is a c.1565 painting by Titian, now in the Galleria Borghese in Rome."},{"label":"DBpedia:Apparition_of_Christ_to_the_Virgin","descr":"The Apparition of Christ to the Virgin is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Filippino Lippi, executed around 1493 and now housed in the Alte Pinakothek of Munich, Germany. The work dates to around to the period after Lippi's return to Florence after his works in the Carafa Chapel at Rome. It is perhaps to be identified with the panel mentioned by the Renaissance art historian Giorgio Vasari in the church of San Francesco al Palco of Prato. In the 19th century, Ludwig I of Bavaria acquired the paintings, which later, together with the other royal collections, was included in the Alte Pinakothek."},{"label":"DBpedia:Mariano_Moreno_en_su_mesa_de_trabajo","descr":"Mariano Moreno en su mesa de trabajo (Spanish: Mariano Moreno at his work desk) is a portrait by the Chilean artist Pedro Subercaseaux. It shows the artist's interpretation of Mariano Moreno, Secretary of War of the Argentine Primera Junta, the first national government, working at his desk. It is currently regarded as the canonical image of Moreno."},{"label":"DBpedia:Presencia_de_Am%C3%A9rica_Latina","descr":"Presencia de Am\u00e9rica Latina (Presence of Latin America), also known as Integraci\u00f3n de Am\u00e9rica Latina (Integration of Latin America) is a mural painted by Mexican artist Jorge Gonz\u00e1lez Camarena between November 1964 and April 1965. The 300-square-meter mural, painted in acrylic on rough stucco, is located in the lobby of the Casa del Arte of the University of Concepci\u00f3n (Ciudad Universitaria de Concepci\u00f3n), in Concepci\u00f3n, Chile. Its principal theme is the unity and brotherhood of the different Latin American cultures. \u003Cdiv class=\"thumb tnone\" style=\"margin-left: auto; margin-right:auto; width:99%; max-width:px;\"\u003E A part of the mural. EnlargeA part of the mural. \u003C\/div\u003E"},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Great_Masturbator","descr":"The Great Masturbator (1929) is a painting by Salvador Dal\u00ed executed during the surrealist epoch, and is currently displayed at Museo Nacional Centro de Arte Reina Sof\u00eda, Madrid."},{"label":"DBpedia:Le_Moulin_de_la_Galette_(Van_Gogh_series)","descr":"Le Moulin de la Galette is the subject and title of several paintings made by Vincent van Gogh in 1886 of a windmill. The Moulin de la Galette was near Van Gogh's apartment with his brother, Theo in Montmartre. The owners of the windmill maximized the view on a butte overlooking Paris, creating a terrace for viewing and a dance hall for entertainment. The windmill paintings are a subset of paintings from Montmartre (Van Gogh series)."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Sigismund_of_Luxemburg","descr":"The Portrait of Sigismund of Luxembourg is a tempera on panel painting attributed to the Italian Late-Gothic master Pisanello and probably executed between 1432 and 1433. It is on display at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna, Austria."},{"label":"DBpedia:Dance_(Matisse)","descr":"The Dance (La Danse) are two related paintings made by Henri Matisse between 1909 and 1910. The first, preliminary version is Matisse's study for the second version. The composition or arrangement of dancing figures is reminiscent of Blake's watercolour \"Oberon, Titania and Puck with fairies dancing\" from 1786."},{"label":"DBpedia:Rideau,_Cruchon_et_Compotier","descr":"Rideau, Cruchon et Compotier is a painting created in about 1893 to 1894 by French artist Paul C\u00e9zanne (19 January 1839 \u2013 22 October 1906). It is considered the most expensive still life ever sold at an auction. C\u00e9zanne was famous for painting still lifes which expressed complex emotions while still being based upon carefully observed reality. Paintings of this type would eventually lead to the creation of new art styles during the 20th century such as Picasso's cubism."},{"label":"DBpedia:Crucifixion_(Titian)","descr":"The Crucifixion is a life sized painting by the Venetian artist Titian, completed in 1558 and presently hanging in the sanctuary of the church of San Domenico, Ancona. Jesus Christ is shown crucified, with Saint Mary and Saint John standing either side of the cross in the Stabat Mater tradition. The kneeling figure is of Saint Dominic. The canvas was completed during Titian\u2019s fifth decade of painting, and is one of the works marking a shift toward his extensive exploration of tragedy and human suffering."},{"label":"DBpedia:Trinity_(Andrei_Rublev)","descr":"Trinity (Russian: \u0422\u0440\u043e\u0438\u0446\u0430, also called \"Rublev's Trinity\") is a Holy Trinity Icon, believed to be created by Russian painter Andrei Rublev in the 15th century. It is his most famous work, as well regarded as one of the highest achievements of Russian art. Trinity depicts the three angels who visited Abraham at the oak of Mamre, but the painting is full of symbolism and often interpreted as an icon of the Holy Trinity. Little is known about Trinity's history, scientists can only make suppositions. Even the authorship of Rublev is questioned sometimes. Different sources conjecture the date of creation as 1408-1425, 1422-1423 or 1420-1427. The official version states 1411 or 1425-27. According to the Trinity Lavra of St. Sergius records, in 1575 the icon was \"covered with gold\" by Ivan the Terrible. A golden riza was renewed in 1600 during the tsardom of Boris Godunov. The original is currently held in the Tretyakov Gallery in Moscow. It was commissioned in honor of the abbot Sergius of the Troitse-Sergiyeva Lavra, near Moscow. Two copies were made (in 1598-1600 and in 1926-28), both kept in Troitse-Sergiyeva Lavra's Cathedral iconostasis."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Death_of_Nelson_(Maclise_painting)","descr":"The Death of Nelson is a wall painting in the Royal Gallery of the Palace of Westminster by the Irish artist Daniel Maclise. A finished study for it, in the form of a painting, is in the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool, Merseyside."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Empty_Mask","descr":"The Empty Mask (1928) is a painting by Belgian surrealist Ren\u00e9 Magritte. In his essay Words and Images, published in 1929, Magritte observed that each image \"suggests that there are others behind it\". Viewed through a freestanding frame of irregular shape, these images are a sky, a lead curtain festooned with sleigh bells, a house fa\u00e7ade, a sheet of paper cut-outs, a forest and a fire. The title evokes the fear of the invisible which pervades the artist's work and reflects the surrealists' fascination with the subconscious. The painting was purchased in 1973 and is usually on display in the National Museum of Wales."},{"label":"DBpedia:Personnage_Oiseaux","descr":"Personnage Oiseaux is one of Joan Mir\u00f3's largest works in the United States and his only glass mosaic mural, (Bird Characters), 1972\u20131978."},{"label":"DBpedia:Still_Life_with_Old_Shoe","descr":"Still Life with Old Shoe, is an oil painting done by Joan Mir\u00f3 in 1937 and now part of the permanent collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York. The work entered the museum as a gift by James Thrall Soby in 1970."},{"label":"DBpedia:Mary_Magdalen_in_Ecstasy","descr":"Mary Magdalen in Ecstasy (1606) is a painting by the Italian artist Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio (1571-1610). Caravaggio's Mary Magdalen in Ecstasy (or variations on that name) exists in at least eighteen copies, of which this version, in a private collection in Rome, illustrated in John Gash's Caravaggio (revised 2003 edition only), has been claimed as the most likely original. The painting was done in the few months following Caravaggio's flight from Rome after the death of Ranuccio Tommassoni on 29 May 1606, while he was in hiding on the estates of his protectors, the powerful Colonna family, and where the primary sources for his life record him painting a Magdalen. According to a legend popular in Caravaggio's time, after Christ's death his faithful female disciple Mary of Magdala moved to southern France, where she lived as a hermit in a cave at Sainte-Beune near Aix-en-Provence. There she was transported seven times a day by angels into the presence of God, \"where she heard, with her bodily ears, the delightful harmonies of the celestial choirs. \" Earlier artists had depicted Mary ascending into the divine presence through multicoloured clouds accompanied by angels; Caravaggio made the supernatural an entirely interior experience, with the Magdalen alone against a featureless dark background, caught in a ray of intense light, her head lolling back and eyes stained with tears. This revolutionary naturalistic interpretation of the legend also allowed him to capture the ambiguous parallel between mystical and erotic love, in Mary's semi-reclining posture and bared shoulder. The painting was immensely influential for future treatment of the theme by artists such as Rubens and Simon Vouet (who adopted Carvaggio's earth-bound Magdalen but reintroduced the angels), and of course Bernini and his celebrated Ecstasy of St Theresa."},{"label":"DBpedia:Odalisque_with_Slave","descr":"Odalisque with a Slave is a 1839 orientalist painting by Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres commissioned by Charles Marcotte. The painting is on display at the Fogg Art Museum in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Ingres made a second version (shown at right) in 1842 with the help of two of his students, Paul and Jean-Hippolyte Flandrin, which is at the Walters Art Museum in Baltimore. It differs from the original by the presence of a garden painted by Paul Flandrin, inspired by the park at the Ch\u00e2teau de Dampierre. The work is a classic piece of Orientalism in French painting."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Fire_in_the_Borgo","descr":"The Fire in the Borgo is a painting by the workshop of the Italian renaissance artist Raphael. Though it is assumed that Raphael did make the designs for the complex composition, the fresco was most likely painted by his assistant Giulio Romano. The painting was part of Raphael's commission to decorate the rooms that are now known as the Stanze di Raffaello, in the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican. It is located in the room that was named after it, the Stanza dell'incendio del Borgo (\"The Room of the Fire in the Borgo\")."},{"label":"DBpedia:Christ_Falling_on_the_Way_to_Calvary_(Raphael)","descr":"Christ Falling on the Way to Calvary, also known as Lo Spasimo or Il Spasimo di Sicilia, is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael, of circa 1514\u201316, now in the Museo del Prado in Madrid. It is an important work for the development of his style."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Gate_of_Calais","descr":"The Gate of Calais or O, the Roast Beef of Old England is a 1748 painting by William Hogarth, reproduced as a print from an engraving the next year. Hogarth produced the painting directly after his return from France, where he had been arrested as a spy while sketching in Calais. The scene depicts a side of beef being transported from the harbour to an English tavern in the port, while a group of undernourished, ragged French soldiers and a fat friar look on hungrily. Hogarth painted himself in the left corner with a \"soldier's hand upon my shoulder.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Flight_into_Egypt_(Poussin_painting)","descr":"The Flight into Egypt is a painting by Nicolas Poussin painted in 1657 or 1658. It was originally kept in the Mus\u00e9e du Louvre, then was transferred to the Mus\u00e9e des Beaux-Arts de Lyon."},{"label":"DBpedia:Ellen_Terry_as_Lady_Macbeth","descr":"Ellen Terry as Lady Macbeth is an oil painting by John Singer Sargent. Painted in 1889, it depicts actress Ellen Terry in a famous performance of William Shakespeare's tragedy Macbeth, wearing a green dress decorated with iridescent beetle wings. The play was produced by Henry Irving at the Lyceum Theatre, London, with Irving also playing Macbeth opposite Terry. Sargent attended the opening night on 29 December 1888 and was inspired to paint Terry's portrait almost immediately."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Funeral_of_the_Anarchist_Galli","descr":"The Funeral of the Anarchist Galli (Il Funerale dell\u2019anarchico Galli) is a painting by Italian painter Carlo Carr\u00e0. It was finished in 1911, during the artist's futurist phase. It currently resides in New York City's Museum of Modern Art. The subject of the work is the funeral of Italian anarchist Angelo Galli, killed by police during a general strike in 1904. The Italian State feared that the funeral would become a de facto political demonstration and refused the mourning anarchists entrance into the cemetery itself. When anarchists resisted, the police responded with force and a violent scuffle ensued. Carlo Carr\u00e0 was present. His work embodies the tension and chaos of the scene: the movement of the bodies, the clashing of anarchists and police, the black flags flying in the air. He reflects in a later memoir: I saw before me the bier, covered with red carnations, wavering dangerously on the shoulders of the pallbearers. I saw the horses becoming restive, and clubs and lances clashing, so that it seemed to me that at any moment the corpse would fall to the ground and be trampled by the horses\u2026"},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Vincenzo_Mosti","descr":"Portrait of Vincenzo Mosti is a painting by Titian, executed around 1520 and now housed in the Galleria Palatina of Florence, Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:Entry_of_the_Crusaders_in_Constantinople","descr":"The Entry of the Crusaders in Constantinople (Entr\u00e9e des Crois\u00e9s \u00e0 Constantinople) or \"The Crusaders Entering Constantinople\" is a large painting by Eug\u00e8ne Delacroix. It was commissioned by Louis-Philippe in 1838, and completed in 1840. Painted in oil on canvas, it is in the collection of the Mus\u00e9e du Louvre in Paris. Delacroix's painting depicts a famous episode of the Fourth Crusade (12 April 1204), in which the Crusaders abandoned their plan to invade Muslim Egypt and Jerusalem, and instead sacked the Christian (Eastern Orthodox) city of Constantinople, the capital of the Byzantine Empire. The painting shows Baldwin I of Constantinople at the head of a procession through the streets of the city following the assault; on all sides are the city's inhabitants who beg for mercy. The painting's luminosity and use of colour owes much to Delacroix's study of the Old Masters, such as Paolo Veronese. The painting was exhibited in the Salon of 1841, where the painterly romanticism of its style was controversial; Le Constitutionnel deplored \"the confused and strangled composition, the dull earthy colours and the lack of definite contours\", but Baudelaire appreciated the work's \"abstraction faite\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Double_Dream_of_Spring","descr":"The Double Dream of Spring (also known as Doppio Sogno di Primavera, 1915) is a painting by the Greek-Italian metaphysical painter Giorgio de Chirico. The painting depicts two separate scenes. The scene on the left shows a statue from behind. The statue appears to be staring contemplatively into an open sky. The two scenes are separated in the middle by a wooden beam. At the base of the beam is a blueprint drawing of an interior. The scene on the right is a view looking down on a landscape. Above the landscape is the shape of the head of a tailor\u2019s dummy. Similar dummies appear many times in de Chirico\u2019s work (cf. The Seer). This time the dummy\u2019s head looms over the landscape like a hot air balloon."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Madonna_of_Port_Lligat","descr":"The Madonna of Port Lligat is the name of two paintings by Salvador Dal\u00ed. The first was created in 1949, measuring 49 x 37.5 centimetres (19.3\u00a0x\u00a014.8\u00a0in), and is housed in the Haggerty Museum of Art at Marquette University in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA. Dali submitted it to Pope Pius XII for approval, which was granted. Dal\u00ed created a second painting in 1950 with the same title and same themes, with various poses and details changed, measuring 144 x 96 centimetres (57.7\u00a0x\u00a037.8\u00a0in); As of 2008, the 1950 Madonna is exhibited at the Fukuoka Art Museum in Japan. The paintings depict a seated Madonna (posed by Dal\u00ed's wife, Gala) with the infant Christ on her lap. Both figures have rectangular holes cut into their torsos, suggestive of their transcendent status. In the 1950 version Christ has bread at the center of his figure. They are posed in a landscape, with a view of Port Lligat, Catalonia seashore in the background, with surrealist details, including nails, fish, seashells, and an egg. The 1949 Madonna has a sea urchin; the 1950 Madonna has a rhinoceros and figures of angels, also posed by Gala. A poem and book based on The Virgin of Port Lligat by Fray Angelico Chavez, was selected as one of the best books of 1959 by the Catholic Library Association"},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Floating_Feather","descr":"The Floating Feather is the commonly used name for an oil-on-canvas painting by Dutch artist Melchior d'Hondecoeter, properly titled A Pelican and Other Birds Near a Pool. The fine detail of the feather floating on the pond led to the \"official\" title being quickly supplanted. The picture was painted around 1680, probably for the hunting lodge of the Stadholder William III of Orange, which is now the royal palace at Soestdijk, or for Het Loo Palace in Apeldoorn. The painting shows a number of birds, both common and exotic, gathered around a pool. Hondecoeter was known for his bird studies and in particular for the realistic portrayal of the subjects. Although he experimented with different styles early in his career, after 1660 he favoured compositions similar to that seen in The Floating Feather: carefully observed subjects set in farmyards, courtyards or country parks with architectural or landscape features enhancing the backgrounds. His paintings were admired by the regents and merchants of Amsterdam, and by William III, who had works at three of his palaces. Hondecoetor's murals and large paintings were well-suited to both the large country houses and the tastes of the time. Hondecoetor kept his own poultry yard at his house, but visited the country houses of his patrons where he could study more exotic species. It was said that he had trained a rooster to stand still on command, so that he could paint it without interruption. In this picture, alongside the pelican are species of wild fowl and domesticated duck, among them muscovy, shelduck, grebe, red-breasted goose, widgeon; and on the far side of the pool are large birds from different continents: a cassowary, East African Crowned Crane and flamingos. Hondecoeter produced a strikingly similar picture, A Pelican and other exotic birds in a park, in which some elements of the composition are identical: the birds on the water, the group of exotic birds, the pelican, and perhaps most notably, the floating feather; some are similar: the landscape and the muscovy duck which is seen in full; and some are entirely different: in this picture a Moluccan Cockatoo perches in a tree above the pool and different birds are introduced on the far side of the pool to the right. The exact date of this painting is not known, but it is possibly between 1655 and 1660."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Clubfoot","descr":"The Clubfoot (also known as The Club-Footed Boy) is a 1642 oil on canvas painting by Jusepe de Ribera. It is housed in the Mus\u00e9e du Louvre in Paris, and was painted in Naples. Part of the La Caze bequest, in 1869. Commissioned by a Flemish dealer, the painting features a Neapolitan beggar boy with a deformed foot. Behind him is a vast and luminous landscape, against which the boy stands with a gap-toothed grin, wearing earth-toned clothes and holding his crutch slung over his left shoulder. Written in Latin on the paper in the boy's hand is the sentence \"DA MIHI ELEMOSINAM PROPTER AMOREM DEI\" (\"Give me alms, for the love of God\")."},{"label":"DBpedia:Portrait_of_Doge_Leonardo_Loredan","descr":"The Portrait of Doge Leonardo Loredan is a painting by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, dating from 1501. It is on display in the National Gallery in London. It portrays Leonardo Loredan, Doge of Venice from 1501 to 1521, in his ceremonial garments with the corno worn over a linen cap. Signed on a cartellino: IOANNES BELLINVS. Leonardo Loredan was the Doge of Venice from 1501-21. He is shown here wearing his robes of state for this formal portrait. The hat and ornate buttons are part of the official wardrobe. The sitter can be identified as Doge Loredan by comparing his features with portrait medals of him. The shape of the hat comes from the hood of a doublet. It is called a 'corno' and was worn over a linen cap. Venice had a tradition of painting formal portraits of its rulers dressed in state robes. This work is painted in the style of the sculpted portrait busts popular at the time. These were often inspired by Roman sculpture. Bellini signed his name in its Latin form on the cartellino, or 'small paper', on the parapet. He was famous for his portraiture and helped make this art form especially popular in Venice."},{"label":"DBpedia:Le_Suicid%C3%A9","descr":"Le Suicid\u00e9 is a small oil painting by \u00c9douard Manet, completed between 1877 and 1881. The painting has been little studied within Manet's oeuvre, as if art historians have had difficulty finding a place for the work within the development of Manet's art. The pictorial content of the painting is limited to a man who appears to have just shot himself\u2014still holding a gun while slouched on a bed\u2014and a few pieces of furniture. Manet has removed the trappings of earlier depictions of suicide, and provided next to no narrative content or \"moralizing tendency\". Ilg (2002) associates the painting with the realism of Gustave Courbet, and notes that Courbet also used a depiction of death in his Burial at Ornans (1849\u201350), a work that Courbet later indicated marked the beginning of his new artistic approach. The realism of Le Suicid\u00e9 has fueled speculation that it depicts an actual suicide, but the subject, if any, is not known. Speculation has concerned an assistant of Manet who committed suicide in Manet's studio more than a decade earlier. Another suicide proposed to be connected with the painting was that of an artist whom \u00c9mile Zola had written about in 1866. Recent critics have downplayed these associations. Manet's approach to this depiction may represent his continuing desire to break from academic tradition, in which a depiction of suicide could only fit within the genre of history painting\u2014where death and suicide would be placed within a narrative associated with sacrifice, idealism, or heroism. Examples in the French idiom include The Death of Socrates (1787) by Jacques-Louis David, which depicts Socrates' choice to kill himself by hemlock rather than go into exile. There is no such grand statement underlying Manet's painting. The artist has not given us a time, a place, or a protagonist. The painting is plainly constructed rather than carefully styled. This departure from tradition would have been controversial with contemporary viewers."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Sleep_of_Reason_Produces_Monsters","descr":"The Sleep of Reason Produces Monsters (Spanish: El sue\u00f1o de la raz\u00f3n produce monstruos) is an etching made by the Spanish painter and printmaker Francisco Goya. Etched between 1797\u20131799, it is plate 43 of the 80 etchings making up the Los Caprichos series. In the etching that might have served as the frontispiece to his suite of satires, Los Caprichos, Goya imagined himself asleep amid his drawing tools, his reason dulled by sleep and bedeviled by creatures that prowl in the dark. The artist's nightmare reflected his view of Spanish society, which he portrayed in the Los Caprichos series as demented, corrupt, and ripe for ridicule. It consists of a self-portrait of the artist with his head on a table, as owls and bats surround him, assailing him as he buries his head into his arms. Seemingly poised to attack the artist are owls (symbols of folly) and bats (symbols of ignorance). The full epigraph for caprichio #43 is: \"Fantasy abandoned by reason produces impossible monsters: united with her, she is the mother of the arts and the origin of their marvels.\""},{"label":"DBpedia:San_Marco_Altarpiece","descr":"The San Marco Altarpiece (also known as Madonna and Saints) is a painting by the Italian early Renaissance painter Fra Angelico, housed in the San Marco Museum of Florence, Italy. It was commissioned by Cosimo de' Medici the Elder, and was completed sometime between 1438 and 1443. In addition to the main panel depicting the enthroned Virgin and Child surrounded by Angels and Saints, there were 9 predella panels accompanying it, narrating the legend of the patron saints, Saints Cosmas and Damian. Only the main panel and two predella panels actually remain in the Convent of San Marco, Florence, Italy, today. The San Marco Altarpiece is known as one of the best early Renaissance paintings for its employment of metaphor and perspective, Trompe l'oeil, and the intertwining of Dominican religious themes and symbols with contemporary, political messages."},{"label":"DBpedia:Virgin_Annunciate_(Antonello_da_Messina,_Munich)","descr":"The Munich Virgin Annunciate is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Antonello da Messina. Like the more famous Palermo version of the same subject, it shows Mary interrupted at her reading by the Angel of the Annunciation."},{"label":"DBpedia:Swans_Reflecting_Elephants","descr":"Swans Reflecting Elephants (1937) is a painting by the Spanish surrealist Salvador Dal\u00ed. This painting is from Dal\u00ed's Paranoiac-critical period. Painted using oil on canvas, it contains one of Dali's famous double images. The double images were a major part of Dali's \"paranoia-critical method,\" which he put forward in his 1935 essay \"The Conquest of the Irrational. \" He explained his process as a \"spontaneous method of irrational understanding based upon the interpretative critical association of delirious phenomena. \" Dali used this method to bring forth the hallucinatory forms, double images and visual illusions that filled his paintings during the Thirties. As with earlier Metamorphosis of Narcissus, Swans Reflecting Elephants uses the reflection in a lake to create the double image seen in the painting. In Metamorphosis, the reflection of Narcissus is used to mirror the shape of the hand on the right of the picture. Here, the three swans in front of bleak, leafless trees are reflected in the lake so that the swans' heads become the elephants' heads and the trees become the bodies of the elephants. In the background of the painting is a Catalonian landscape depicted in fiery fall colors, the brushwork creating swirls in the cliffs that surround the lake, to contrast with the stillness of the water."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Night_Caf%C3%A9","descr":"The Night Caf\u00e9 is an oil painting created in Arles in September 1888, by Vincent van Gogh. Its title is inscribed lower right beneath the signature. The interior depicted is the Caf\u00e9 de la Gare, 30 Place Lamartine, run by Joseph-Michel and his wife Marie Ginoux, who in November 1888 posed for Van Gogh's and Gauguin's Arl\u00e9sienne; a bit later, Joseph Ginoux evidently posed for both artists, too."},{"label":"DBpedia:Hope_(painting)","descr":"Hope is a Symbolist oil painting by George Frederic Watts, two versions of which were completed in 1886. The painting was intended to form part of a series of allegorical paintings by Watts entitled the \"House of Life\"."},{"label":"DBpedia:Virgil's_Tomb_(Joseph_Wright_paintings)","descr":"Virgil's Tomb is the title of at least three paintings completed by Joseph Wright of Derby between 1779 and 1785."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Concert_(Vermeer)","descr":"The Concert (c. 1664) is a painting by Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer. The 69 centimeter high by 63 centimeter wide picture depicts a man and two women playing music. It belongs to the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston, but was stolen in March 1990 and remains missing to this day. It is thought to be the most valuable unrecovered stolen painting, with a value estimated at over $200,000,000."},{"label":"DBpedia:Madonna_of_the_Carnation","descr":"The Madonna of the Carnation, a.k.a. Madonna with vase or Madonna with child, is an oil painting by Leonardo da Vinci created around 1478-1480. It is permanently displayed at the Alte Pinakothek gallery in Munich, Germany since 1889 after it was in private ownership. The central (and centered) motif is young Virgin Mary with her naked Baby Jesus on her lap. Mary is seated and wears precious clothes and jewellery. With her left hand, she is holding a carnation (interpreted as a healing symbol). The faces are put into light while all other objects are darker, f.e. the carnation is covered by a shadow. The child is looking up, the mother is looking down \u2014 there is no eye contact. The setting of the portrait is a room with two windows on each side of the figures. Originally this painting was thought to have been created by Andrea del Verrocchio but subsequent art historians agree that it is Leonardo's work. Madonna and Child was a common motif in Christian art during the Middle Ages. This painting is the only work by Leonardo which is permanently on display in Germany."},{"label":"DBpedia:Bagnacavallo_Madonna","descr":"The Bagnacavallo Madonna is an oil painting by Albrecht D\u00fcrer, dating to before 1505. It is now in the Magnani-Rocca Foundation of Traversetolo, in the province of Parma, Italy."},{"label":"DBpedia:Santa_Lucia_de'_Magnoli_Altarpiece","descr":"The Santa Lucia de' Magnoli Altarpiece is a painting by the Italian painter Domenico Veneziano, dated to around 1445-1447. Once placed at the high altar of the church of Santa Lucia dei Magnoli, Florence, it is now housed in the Uffizi Gallery in the same city. The large canvas had originally a predella, which has been divided between museums in Washington, Berlin and Cambridge."},{"label":"DBpedia:Guernica_(painting)","descr":"Guernica is a painting by Pablo Picasso. It was created in response to the bombing of Guernica, a Basque Country village in northern Spain by German and Italian warplanes at the behest of the Spanish Nationalist forces, on 26 April 1937, during the Spanish Civil War. The Spanish Republican government commissioned Picasso to create a large mural for the Spanish display at the Paris International Exposition at the 1937 World's Fair in Paris. Guernica shows the tragedies of war and the suffering it inflicts upon individuals, particularly innocent civilians. This work has gained a monumental status, becoming a perpetual reminder of the tragedies of war, an anti-war symbol, and an embodiment of peace. Upon completion Guernica was displayed around the world in a brief tour, becoming famous and widely acclaimed. This tour helped bring the Spanish Civil War to the world's attention."},{"label":"DBpedia:Two_Rats","descr":"Two Rats is an oil painting created in 1884 by Vincent van Gogh."},{"label":"DBpedia:Colonna_Madonna","descr":"The Madonna Colonna is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael. It was painted in 1508, near the end of Raphael's Florentine period. This painting should not be confused with the Colonna Altarpiece by the same artist which is at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in NYC."},{"label":"DBpedia:Magdalen_with_the_Smoking_Flame","descr":"Saint Mary Magdalen with the Smoking Flame (also titled in French La Madeleine \u00e0 la veilleuse, and La Madeleine \u00e0 la flamme filante) is an oil-on-canvas by French Baroque painter Georges de La Tour, painted in 1640. This version of the painting is currently held and exhibited at the Louvre in Paris. Other paintings by La Tour containing the Penitent Magdalene are exhibited at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, the National Gallery of Art, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Death_of_General_Wolfe","descr":"The Death of General Wolfe is a well-known 1770 painting by Anglo-American artist Benjamin West depicting the death of British General James Wolfe during the 1759 Battle of Quebec of the Seven Years' War. It is an oil on canvas of the Enlightenment period. West made an additional and nearly identical painting of the same scene for King George III in 1771."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Polish_Rider","descr":"The Polish Rider is a seventeenth century painting, usually dated to the 1650s, of a young man traveling on horseback through a murky landscape, now in the Frick Collection in New York. When the painting was bought by Henry Frick in 1910, there was consensus that the work was by the Dutch painter Rembrandt. This attribution has since been contested, though this remains a minority view. There has also been debate over whether the painting was intended as a portrait of a particular person, living or historical, and if so of whom, or if not, what it was intended to represent. The quality of the painting is generally admitted as is its slight air of mystery. though parts of the background are very sketchily painted or unfinished."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Storm_(painting)","descr":"The Storm (La Temp\u00eate) is a painting by French artist Pierre Auguste Cot, completed in 1880. Currently on display at New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art, the painting was commissioned from the artist in 1880 by Catharine Lorillard Wolfe under the guidance of her cousin John Wolfe, one of Cot's principal patrons."},{"label":"DBpedia:Christ_Driving_the_Money_Changers_from_the_Temple_(El_Greco,_Washington)","descr":"Christ Driving the Money Changers from the Temple is a 1568 Christian art painting by El Greco, now in the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. , in the United States. It depicts the Cleansing of the Temple, an event in the Life of Christ. There exist three other copies of the painting and also a faithful reproduction in the National Gallery in London, which has recently been considered as authentic by scholars in the field of visual arts. Two versions and that other on loan from Madri are titled Purification of the Temple. The one at the National Gallery in Washington is called Christ Cleansing the Temple. The painting which bears this actual title belongs to the Minneapolis Institute of Arts and it is somewhat different from all the other versions of this legendary scene."},{"label":"DBpedia:Just_what_is_it_that_makes_today's_homes_so_different,_so_appealing%3F","descr":"Just what is it that makes today's homes so different, so appealing? is a collage by English artist Richard Hamilton. It measures 10.25\u00a0in \u00d7 9.75\u00a0in . The work is now in the collection of the Kunsthalle T\u00fcbingen, T\u00fcbingen, Germany. It was the first work of pop art to achieve iconic status."},{"label":"DBpedia:The_Allegory_of_Faith","descr":"The Allegory of Faith, also known as Allegory of the Catholic Faith, is a painting created by Dutch artist Johannes Vermeer in about 1670-1672. The painting is currently located at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, and has been since 1931. This and Vermeer's only other, earlier, allegory, Art of Painting are his only works that fall under history painting in the contemporary hierarchy of genres, though they still have his typical composition of one or two figures in a domestic interior. Both share several features: the perspective is almost the same, and at the left of each painting is a multicolor tapestry pulled to the left to disclose the scene. The Art of Painting also used symbolism from Cesare Ripa (of Clio, muse of history). Vermeer's Love Letter uses the same or a similar gilt panel. The Allegory and The Art of Painting two paintings differ markedly in style and purpose from Vermeer's other works. Both works show complex meaning, but this one \"reveals that the artist's usual focus on naturalistic effects was a stylistic option, to be set aside when the subject called for another approach\". The Art of Painting still reads as a naturalistic depiction of an artist and his model, and the pose, if not the costume, of the model is a simple one, whereas the pose of the figure in the The Allegory of Faith is Baroquely dramatic."}]